Slippery as an Eel
Of all the sea creatures in the world, alongside dolphins, octopuses, sea otters, and whales, the sneakiest sea creature alongside the shark would be the moray eel. In nearly every form of media, eels are depicted as being sneaky creatures that have a propensity for tricking other sea creatures. It's a sure sign that they cannot be trusted. In other words, they're basically the oceanic version of snakes. Actual sea snakes (as opposed to mythical sea serpents) are Seldom-Seen Species, probably because they're far less intimidating-looking than moray eels, which basically look very bizarre and downright alien, right down to having Xenomorph-like jaws in its throat.
Moray eels are the species most often used, due to their fearsome appearance, though the occasional Psycho Electric Eel may be used for this trope as well (despite electric "eels" being a type of knifefish). And sometimes, in an example of Artistic License – Biology, a moray will be a Psycho Electric Eel.
Sub-Trope of Fiendish Fish.
Examples:
Anime & Manga
In One Piece there's Hammond, a villainous Small Name, Big Ego character who's also a Daggertooth Pike Conger fishman.
Films — Animation 
Disney:
The Little Mermaid: Flotsam and Jetsam are a prime example of this trope, two slippery moray eels working as spies for the villain Ursula. Unusually for Disney villain sidekicks, they are not humorous the least bit, averting Vile Villain, Laughable Lackey.
Robin Hood: When Prince John gets upset with Sir Hiss, he calls him an "eel in snake's clothing!" as he is a snake already, and therefore he had to go further than the typical insults.
How the Grinch Stole Christmas!: According to the song "You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch", the Grinch is actually "cuddly as a cactus and charming as an eel".
Padak: Anago/Jooldom is an eel living in a sushi restaurant's aquarium with a bunch of other fish species. While everybody is pretty nihilistic about their situation, Jooldom stands out particularly for his Lack of Empathy, and is very creepy towards Naïve Newcomer Padak. Jooldom shows his true colors when he eats the corpse of Spotty, the nicest fish in the aquarium, an action which disgusts everybody else (which really says something as they previously had no compunctions about cannibalizing the other fish thrown in).
The Water Babies: An electric eel serves as the sycophantic, brown-noser lackey of the evil shark king.
Films — Live-Action
Pirates of the Caribbean: Morey, from the Flying Dutchman's cursed crew, has an eel's head and neck as a personal mutation. Making the best out of it, it bites people in the face.
A Sound of Thunder: One of the nastier bizarre Alternate History animals generated by the time waves is a gigantic eel. It uses ambush tactics for its initial attack on the hero, then bends its body like a hairpin to line up its jaws for another strike, while coiling its tail around him like a constrictor snake.
Literature 
Redwall: Large, carnivorous eels are a recurring danger in the books and serve as the series' equivalent to Sea Serpents and water dragons.
In Mossflower, the heroes are captured by a tribe of hostile toads and thrown into a pit with a massive eel called Snakefish, whom the toads trapped there years earlier and used him to get rid of their prisoners since then. Surprisingly for a series in which fish are generally portrayed non-sentient creatures, Snakefish not only turns out to be quite intelligent, but fully capable of speech, and agrees to spare the heroes’ lives if they manage to release him from the pit. They do, and Snakefish finally gets his revenge on the toads by devouring most of them.
Taggerung features Yo Karr, another giant eel worshipped as a god by a tribe of pygmy shrews who sustain themselves on his offspring. In exchange, they regularly sacrifice some of their own to Yo Karr until Tagg kills him.
In The Long Patrol, a yellow eel that is not quite as big as the two mentioned above, but still very dangerous to smaller animals, has settled in an abandoned well underneath Redwall Abbey and attacks a young nun before being killed by Skipper, the leader of the Mossflower otters.
Music 
A Filk Song parody of Dean Martin's "That's Amore", titled "That's a Moray", centers around how dangerous eels are.
Video Games
Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag: Spotted moray eels can be found hiding in seaweed, and they do attack Edward.
Bug has red coloured moray eels as enemies in Quaria. They stick out of wall areas to attack an unsuspecting Bug, and some of them can spit fireballs. While underwater.
Carrie's Order Up! has Reginald, an eel businessman, complete with hat and suitcase. Of course, his slipperiness is limited to trying slip in as long a lunch break as possible.
In Far Cry 3, moray eels are one of the three most dangerous creatures Jason Brody can come across in the waters of the Rook Islands, in addition to sharks and crocodiles.
In Freddi Fish, Eddie the Eel is depicted as a trickster who prevents Freddi and Luther from trying to go where they needed to, unless he is bribed.
GRIS: The black ooze that pursues the protagonist throughout the game takes the form of a gigantic eel that chases and snaps at her in the climax of the water level.
Kaiju Combat: Moratitan the giant moray is not particularly friendly.
Mega Man Zero: Volteel Biblio in Mega Man Zero 3 is a very sneaky character, his level being particularly trap-infested and snaking through secret passages all over his Boss Fight arena to get the drop on you, being That One Boss of the game.
Pokémon: Huntail and Gorebyss are eel-like creatures that live in the sea; the former has characteristics of moray eels, viperfish and gulper eels, while the latter is based on the snipe eel and pipefish. Both are predator species, and use their respective characteristics to lure prey into range of attack.
Shadow of the Tomb Raider: Moray eels team up with piranhas and plain old drowning to make your life miserable while underwater. Thankfully, and unlike piranhas, moray eels can be fought off and thus neutralized permanently without much trouble, so they look more intimidating than they actually are.
Super Mario Bros.:
Super Mario 64: Unagi the Eel is an infamous example. While not necessarily malicious, it does not appear to like Mario, as it will start roaring and swimming around if he comes close and contact with it causes damage. Unagi later becomes a type of enemy in New Super Mario Bros., appears as a track hazard in the Mario Kart Wii level "Koopa Cape" and the Mario Kart 8 level "Dolphin Shoals", and return for Super Mario Odyssey now looking less cartoony and more like the demonic morays they were always meant to be.
Super Mario Galaxy features giant eels as enemies in water planets.
Super Mario Sunshine: Eely-Mouth is a monster eel (that appears to be a hermaphrodite, oddly enough; some species are sequential hermaphrodites in real life) whose teeth are so bad that they somehow infect the water in Noki Bay, meaning Mario and FLUDD must go and clean things up, yet again.
Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze has a gigantic eel-like enemy called a Gargantuan Gill. A school of these things feature prominently in the aptly-named level "Twilight Terror", while a few more briefly appear later in the "High Tide Ride" level.
Web Animation 
DSBT InsaniT:
Even though Eel is not an organic eel, he still falls under this trope. He's sneaky, crafty, and the Big Bad of the series.
White Killer Eels really live up to their name.
Not only is Robber Eel, well, a robber, but he is slippery in the tricky sense too.
Western Animation 
Carmen Sandiego: In "The Crackle Goes Kiwi Caper", V.I.L.E.'s newest recruit for the position formerly held by Shadow-san is a particularly slippery sort, hence his code name "Neal the Eel".
In Flipper and Lopaka, Serge is a sea snake (although easily mistaken for an eel) who acts as the 'brains' to Dexter's motivation. He is bright green, with a devious and sharp mind.
SpongeBob SquarePants: In "Life of Crime", Mr. Krabs refers to a thief he saw on TV as an "eel in the kelp" (a play on the term "snake in the grass").

Your Princess Is in Another Castle!
"THIS ROOM IS AN ILLUSION AND IS A TRAP DEVISUT BY SATAN.
GO AHEAD DAUNTLESSLY! MAKE RAPID PROGRES [sic]!"
— Ghosts 'n Goblins, immediately before forcing the player to replay the entire game
The plot has been resolved... but the work isn't actually over yet. Before long, there's a twist thrown in. Alternately the plot looks all resolved, and we've almost reached the end, so it actually seems like everything's working out... but then the writers pull a Cliffhanger situation to finish everything off.
In terms of providing a genuine surprise, the trope works to varying degrees in different media, from being nearly unusable in books (the reader can tell how much is left by page count, but unexpected sequels can occasionally catch one by surprise) to completely effective in single-media computer games, particularly RPGs. For some reason, there has been a trend of including a segment which transparently pretends to be the climax or endgame when it obviously isn't, not just because there are vast expanses of the map you haven't explored yet or plot threads that haven't been tied up yet, but because you're still on Disc 1 of 4. Expect to see The Man Behind the Man make his first appearance, perhaps offing the guy you thought was the Big Bad, as well as a Climax Boss or two and maybe a traitor. The heroes may find that a minor crime has revealed a major plot.
When done at the end of a movie, it is used as a tease for a sequel. Of course, that could depend on whether the movie is good/successful enough to warrant a sequel. A Sequel Reset or Happy Ending Override often invalidates previous accomplishments of the hero.
In Crime and Punishment Series, this trope usually results in the detained suspect being Acquitted Too Late. In RPGs, this often takes the form of a Disc-One Final Dungeon. See also Snicket Warning Label, Nice Job Breaking It, Hero!, "Shaggy Dog" Story and Hope Spot. Closely related to You Can't Thwart Stage One and Heads I Win, Tails You Lose; may also overlap with Failure Is the Only Option.
Compare Victory Fakeout and Trick Boss. If the twist never comes, Ending Fatigue awaits. Contrast Left Hanging and Spoiled by the Format. See also The Stinger.
Derives its name from Super Mario Bros., where after all but the final castle level, a rescued Toad thanks Mario but tells him "Our Princess is in Another Castle."
Examples:
Your Princess Is In Another Castle / Video Games
Abobo's Big Adventure: In reference to the Trope Namer, Toad appears in a secret area within the Zelda level, to inform Abobo of this. Unfortunately for him, Abobo is looking for someone else, so he gets a Bullet Bill in the face for his trouble.
In the Action 52 game Lollipops, since it is unfinished like most of the other games, you never actually find the princess you're supposed to rescue according to the manual. All of the Magical Mystery Doors in the third level lead back to the first level.
In Advent Rising, you think you've won the game, cue credits, and then another boss fight.
Agarest Senki: If you think killing the guy who started the mess was going to be the finish line, you're wrong.
Antichamber: After every gun upgrade, and at some points without gun upgrades, you often go by the exit door. It usually just has a wall with a quote about progress and endings immediately behind it. After playing this straight 4 times however, this is inverted in the very end, where if you try to ignore the exit door like you would before, the other door would lead you to a wall and a quote about how you should move on.
In Arc Style: Baseball!! 3D, you're told that Team Crystal is the final challenge in Tournament mode... But there's one more: the Arc Stars, which is an exhibition of the company's best known characters.
In Ar tonelico: Melody of Elemia, things happen in such a way that you can actually declare that you're not going to continue through another castle for the princess, and if you do, the princess won't blame you for that decision. However, if you want the best (and canon) ending, get your castle-breaking equipments, for you're in for a serious ride.
In Assassin's Creed II you fight a climatic battle with the Big Bad in Venice. In time all your allies appear to help you. Then, the Big Bad escapes.
At the end of the arcade version of Astyanax, after defeating the Big Bad, you have to infiltrate a Xenomorph-style alien hive and take out their queen, who is the Greater-Scope Villain.
Happens in Baldur's Gate II. You defeat the Big Bad and everything is fine and dandy, right? Wrongo. Because he's got a chunk of your soul inside him he drags you down to hell with him.
In Banjo-Kazooie, the titular characters manage to rescue Tooty from Gruntilda upon clearing her game, although Gruntilda escapes. With Tooty rescued, everyone decides to go back to Banjo's house and throw a party, with a number of side characters thanking you. However, during the party, Tooty barges in and admonishes everyone for celebrating when Gruntilda hasn't been punished for what she did. You'll end up back inside Gruntilda's Lair with the new mission to reach the top and defeat her once and for all.
Batman: Arkham City: You've found the MacGuffin!—oh, damn, the Joker stole it. Repeat.
The Lava Caves in Baten Kaitos: Eternal Wings and the Lost Ocean. Though rather obvious because the time to enter the dungeon comes not too long after a disc change.
In Baten Kaitos: Origins, this is done a little more faithfully. After defeating Verus, the party will begin to leave Tarazed when Wiseman shows up and uses Verus's body to turn into a giant griffon-like monster. This may or may not count, however considering it only happens if you went back in time and defeated Wiseman at Atria before fighting the final boss
In Bayonetta - Balder's been killed, Cereza's been taken back to her own time, and Luka's alive, so everything's back to normal, right? Nope! Turns out Balder wanted the older Cereza - Bayonetta herself - to recover her old memories through caring for her younger self, so that she could take her place as the so-called Left Eye of Jubileus herself! But then Jeanne shows up, freed of Balder's mind control, and frees Bayonetta so that she can fight Jubileus, and later helps destroy the god's corpse so it can't still destroy Earth in death.
In The Binding of Isaac, your mother is the main antagonist. So you make it to the deepest level of the Creepy Basement and defeat your mother. Game over, right? Well, no. Then you get to climb down into a deeper level, titled "The Womb", implied to be your mother's body, where you get to kill your mother's heart. Okay, now it's over, right? Nope. Keep going down into Sheol, or the underworld, where you'll fight Satan. Well, that was a suitably epic final boss...that is, if Satan was the final boss at all. Back at the Womb, you can go forward instead of down to enter The Cathedral, where the final boss is...yourself? Wha...? Okay, so you kill...yourself. Mind Screw aside, that HAS to be the final boss, right? Ha ha ha, no. Enter THE CHEST. This nightmare can only end one way...by defeating the "dead" version of you, implied to have committed suicide by suffocation in The Chest. THAT is the very truly final boss.
...And then Rebirth comes along. So, you completed The Chest and vanquished the Blue Baby? Good for you!...Except you're not done yet. Now, Sheol has its own equivalent to The Chest, The Dark Room, where you'll battle The Lamb. So that means you're done, right? Uh...no. Did you notice the large golden door in The Chest and The Dark Room now? You need to unlock it by bombing the statues in the Angel Rooms and taking the halves of the key from the angels guarding them. Once you unlock the door, you'll face the game's ACTUAL actual True Final Boss: Mega Satan. Only when you defeat him will the game be over.
...But then there came Afterbirth which added Greed Mode. But that's more its own thing. What really is the final boss is Hush, the decaying "dead" Isaac that was the final boss of the original game turned into some hideous blue mound of flesh... Or it would be if it wasn't for the fact that the REAL final boss was actually in the Afterbirth+ update in the form of Delirium, some mental abomination that transforms into the various bosses encountered during the current playthrough and is as hard as you'd expect from the constant power usurping. Beating it gives an ending labelled as the "Final Ending" and the game means it.
In the TurboGrafx-16 version of Bloody Wolf, the President is rescued at the end of the fourth stage, but the getaway helicopter has only one seat available. Thus a new challenge is presented to the player: are you a bad enough dude to rescue the guy who saved the President?
In the Wii A Boy and His Blob, the final boss comes at the end of the eighth level of the fourth world. Since all the other worlds up to that point had 10—for an advertised 40 main levels—it's clear that things over yet. Suddenly, the very first world gets two extra levels, and you get an 11th-Hour Superpower...
BioShock. Your "final confrontation" with Andrew Ryan only leads to discovering that "Atlas" is actually an alias for Frank Fontaine, and that you've been a mind-control Laser Guided Tyke Bomb the whole time. So now it's off to find the antidote for the mind-control and kill Fontaine.
Braid has this message at the end of every world except for the last one, where it turns out that the princess was running away from you all along. Played with in World 4, where time advances when your character walks towards the right side of the screen, reverses when you walk to the left, and freezes when you stand still, causing the message to end up "Sorry, but the princess is in another... hey, where are you going?"
In Breakdown, a game by Namco for the Xbox, once you get to the penultimate boss and beat him, he gets right back up and kills you, placing you in a room you'd probably forgotten about. The twist that follows turns out to be the defining moment of the plot.
In the arcade version of Captain Silver, after apparently defeating the title character, you open the treasure chest, only to read: "Imitation! Go back and find a real one." Then you have go through all the areas again.
Castle Crashers by The Behemoth occasionally does this. You'll chase down the bad guys dragging the princesses along, and go through several bosses before finally beating the end-level boss to fight for one princess while the others escape to be rescued another level.
Castlevania:
Symphony of the Night uses this with a second Dracula's castle that is basically exactly the same as the first...only inverted.
Aria of Sorrow. We fight the reincarnation of Dracula, the day is saved, and then... surprise!
Portrait of Ruin. Let's fight Brauner and finish this game off once and for all, okay, he's been defeated, and—did Death just finish him off and reveal that Dracula is back and ready to go?
Harmony of Dissonance in a way too; you've filled in almost all of the map, clocking at around 80% coverage... and then Death reveals that there are actually two overlapping castles and you're less than half done exploring them.
In Catherine, throughout the entire game Vincent kept being told that the nightmare sequences will last eight days, and after that he will be free if he survives. He was given freedom and the plot seems to be resolved (even if the ending seems to be less than ideal), until the Plot Twist arrives and this time he voluntarily gets the nightmare for one final night which is the final stage.
Done twice in Cave Story. The first time's highly obvious; you've been sent to the Sand Zone to stop the Doctor getting his hands on the Red Flowers. Of course, You Are Too Late. You immediately get fed a Climax Boss when the Doctor decides to test out the Red Flowers on Toroko, and then get dumped in the Labyrinth. After slogging through the Labyrinth and picking up exposition along the way, you find the heart of the island, which The Mentor has told you to destroy. You defeat it in battle... only for the Big Bad to show up and save it before it explodes, and then teleport out leaving you in a flooded room with no way out. Crap.
The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay has the eponymous character escape from parts of the game's also eponymous prison complex, every time seemingly ending the game, only for Riddick to be apprehended and thrown into a more heavily guarded block. Notably even after the player escapes from the last one (where the prisoners are stored in a cryonic state) the game still pulls this trope by throwing in a last Boss Battle.
The game also lampshades this during the first level/tutorial where Riddick manages to get away before he even enters the jail. The catch? He was dreaming.
Assault on Dark Athena features the entire Butcher Bay campaign (remade with 7th-gen technology) and has a gigantic Not So Fast Bucko by way of the ending leading directly into a new campaign of equal length to the original game.
Chrono Trigger has several points like this, particularly the first battle with Magus and the Ocean Palace. The latter is particularly clever, as the main character, Crono, is likely close to getting his final ability, or will get it by or during this dungeon. On the other hand, if you've been Level Grinding like mad or are playing a New Game+, you can win the Unwinnable Boss Battle and end the game.
Likewise for its sequel Chrono Cross, which has several points like this, particularly the first battle with Lynx.
Commander Keen IV requires the player to rescue eight Gnosticene Elders. One level, the Pyramid of the Forbidden, is much more difficult than any other level, and it turns out that the person you rescue at the end is merely a janitor, thus making the level a Bonus Dungeon of sorts. That would have been nice to know beforehand, since the only way back to the main part of the map is to meet said Janitor. Can't sleep, blue guys will fucking melt me...
In an odd variation, some songs in Dance Dance Revolution do this. So, you think the song's over, huh? Well, don't relax yet, there's one last note waiting to ruin your score when you miss it!
In the Christmas Episode of The Darkside Detective, after the Krampus has been defeated and Santa rescued, the "Case Closed" caption appears and the usual outro music plays — and then there's a shout for help from offscreen, and there turns out to be one more puzzle to solve.
Dark Souls II interestingly pulls this off with a king of all things. The game is gearing you up for a final showdown against King Vendrick in Drangleic Castle. When you battle your way through his most elite knights and directly into the passage where he's supposedly sequestered himself off from the world, you realize he's not there and has long fled the castle. The next part of the game is the process of chasing him down. And then when you finally find King Vendrick... he's long since gone hollow, reduced to a decayed, near-naked zombie shambling mindlessly around his chamber. While you can fight him if you want to, all you need to do is grab his ring from his pile of discarded equipment and quietly leave, because Vendrick never was the Final Boss.
Lampshaded (along with everything else) by Mao in Disgaea 3, where he pulls of his wicked theft of the Hero title from the hapless Almaz, and apparently goes to face the final boss at the end of the first chapter. Disgaea 4 does it so often it becomes a Running Gag, in how episode 7 and everything after it is labeled as the "Final Episode", and the stakes just keep getting raised every single time it appears that the heroes have won. The game doesn't actually end before episode 10, which is aptly labeled as the "Real Final Episode".
In Dodonpachi Daifukkatsu, after you've beaten the first loop, you're given the possibility to go through a second loop. After doing that, you see your Battle Unit returning to its mother ship and flying through the Time Travel Gate while the Credits Song is playing. Cue the warning of an incoming unknown threat. And then suddenly a giant laser beam appears that destroys your mother ship shortly after you managed to escape with your own battle unit. Guess what that was. Right, it's General Longhena, sitting in his Hibachi unit, ready to kick your ass. He will!!!
In the Game Boy remake of Donkey Kong, the final world has Mario defeating Donkey Kong in a final battle, with dramatic music playing at the top of the tower...until DK falls off the tower in the cutscene, grows gigantic due to some Super Mushrooms and attempts to finish off Mario once and for all.
Similar things happen in the spiritual sequels Mario vs. Donkey Kong.
Donkey Kong Country's Final Boss starts playing Fake "Kredits" right before he Turns Red.
Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest: When you arrive at Stronghold Showdown, you'd be expecting a grand battle. However, all you see is Donkey Kong tied up, and you'll get a Kremkoin as if you've already won. Donkey Kong is quickly taken away by Kaptain K. Rool and you're forced to go through one more level until you can take on the Kaptain himself. By the way, the free Kremkoin is only for the original SNES version. In the GBA re-release, you will have to defeat Kerozene before earning that Kremkoin.
New Super Mario Bros. for Nintendo DS has a variation of this where you defeat the "final" castle, only for a new path to suddenly reveal itself and lead the way to the true final castle.
And New Super Mario Bros. Wii pulls the Donkey Kong gambit with a defeated Bowser suddenly becoming super-sized.
In the original Doom, in Episode 2, Mission 6, "Halls of the Damned", you go through a long corridor, up to a room with an "Exit" sign and a switch, that when you throw the switch the floor collapses into a room with a whole bunch of nasties; it was a trick to make you think it's the end of the level.
A much better example would be Episode 3's secret level "Warrens": it's an exact copy of the episode's first level, "Hell Keep", right down to weapon and monster placement, except significantly easier as you start with more than just the pistol. When you reach the end of the level, the teleporter doesn't bring you to the stat counter - it drops a bunch of walls, revealing new areas filled with new monsters - such as the Cyberdemon standing directly in front of you.
Dragon Age:
Dragon Age: Origins: The PC arrives at the fortress of Ostagar, meets the king and is told that an epic final battle is on the cards. Sure, thinks the player, who's done less than an hour's play in a BioWare game, final battle, right... Of course the battle is a slaughter due to a betrayal and things get a lot harder.
Dragon Age: Inquisition: After allying with either the rebel mages or the templars, you close the Breach, supposedly fulfilling the goal of the game. However, it comes off as anticlimactic, and it's obviously too early into the plot for it to be the end. Then Corypheus reveals himself and attacks Haven.
Dragon Quest:
Dragon Quest III had one of the first fakeouts of the series. After defeating Baramos, returning to the king, and watching a celebration in your honor (this being a common ending theme for DQ games), Zoma suddenly nukes the partygoers and challenges you to come to his world. It's especially effective since your characters are quite powerful by this point, you've (most likely) explored the entire world map, and even have a means of flight. This set up the Dragon Quest tradition of traveling to a Lost World in the final act, though sometimes this is done without a fake final boss.
Dragon Quest VII: The Nottagen plot pulls this twice. First off it seems you've rescued the town... yet dispelling the gloom blocking out the sun caused a plant monster to wake up and destroy the town again. Then when you save the town from the plant, hellworms invade and destroy the town. All in all, the town is very well named (for those who don't get it, "Not again!").
Pulled off brilliantly in Dragon Quest VIII, with the battle against Dhoulmagus. Even though it obviously can't be the Final Boss fight due to the around half the map remaining unexplored, the game does such a good job of matching the feel of a genuine Final Boss battle (multiple forms, extreme difficulty and all) that that while you're fighting it's easy to forget it's not one. The dungeon you explore to get to him is also creepy enough to give the impression of a final dungeon as well.
In Dragon Quest XI, you've traveled the whole map — twice — in your quest, defeated Mordegon, and returned peace to the land; but the postgame opens by presenting the possibility of going back in time to prevent his rise to power — and the Heroic Sacrifice of one of your party members — in the first place. Follow through on that, and there's yet another problem looming: in the original timeline, you saw Mordegon destroy something that he felt threatened his reign. Now with Mordegon down, the other evil makes his move unopposed.
In Dragon Slayer, after defeating the dragon, the remaining task of carrying the four crowns it was guarding back to your home should be simple. But it isn't: ghosts immediately scatter the crowns all over the dungeon, and your home is now surrounded by Mook Makers.
One quest in The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim has the player traipsing deep within an undead-infested tomb to retrieve the legendary Horn of Jurgen Windcaller. At the end, you finally reach the coffin itself, to discover nothing more than a note from 'a friend' telling you they've already taken the Horn, and want you to meet them.
Later on the main quest you learn the Dragonrend shout to defeat Alduin, find an Elder Scroll to summon him and engage him in an epic battle atop the Throat of the World. Great you just beat him! Oh wait he flew away and it turns out he can only be defeated in Sovngarde.
One quest has a kid who was summoning an assassin to kill an evil orphanage director who beats and starves the kids and even refuses to let people adopt them. So even though you aren't an assassin, you can kill her anyway, the kids rejoice and the one who issued the quest gives you his most prized possession... quest over right? Actually it turns out that since you weren't an actual assassin, you took a mark that was rightfully theirs and they are pissed. So it's either join their guild or die, or take down the entire guild killing them all. Regardless, joining them starts an entire long chain of quests which ultimately ends with you killing the Emperor of Tamriel himself.
The Steam version of Eversion references this trope with its "The Princess Is In Another Castle" achievement which you get if you complete Stage 7 without getting all the gems, to make clear that this isn't the game's true ending. It might also be a reference to this popular Eversion fanart (link has spoilers).
In Fallout: New Vegas, you spend the first half of the game tracking down the man who shot you and stole the package you were supposed to deliver to Mr House. But when you finally accomplish this, the brewing conflict between the NCR, Caesar's Legion, House and the mysterious Yes Man comes to a head, and you become caught in the middle of it due to that Platinum Chip you just recovered. Whose side are you on?
One in the second Fantasy Quest game takes the form of the actual princesses being in a different castle.
Final Fantasy:
In Final Fantasy II, the Princess Hilda you rescue from the Dreadnought turns out to be an imposter, and the real Princess Hilda is then held as the prize for the Emperor's tournament.
Later, when the Emperor is killed, the Dark Knight (who is revealed to be Leon), takes the throne of Palamecia. His reign is abruptly cut off by the Emperor's return.
Thamasa and the Floating Continent in Final Fantasy VI. This was before the era of multi-disc games, and the Floating Continent (a giant chunk of land ripped from the earth) just screams The Very Definitely Final Dungeon, so it is far less apparent. Well, unless you actually went through the paper Feelies and discovered that there was a "World of Ruin" map included. Or if you look at your spells and espers and realize that you've still got far less than half of them, way less than you could realistically have missed. This is one of the main reasons why the trope often fails in videogames.
Done quite right in Final Fantasy V: the "floating continent" incident happens at one third of the game, at the fourth of four crystals; there are still magic and stuff missing. Then you can get almost everything, and go to a convincing and very hard in context The Very Definitely Final Dungeon. Once won you get an ending montage; but the worlds still have to merge, several towns have to be swallowed by the void, and you have to go into the Void to finish Exdeath once and for all.
Done in an epic fashion in Final Fantasy XIII: Galenth is defeated for good in the final dungeon And There Was Much Rejoicing... except Lightning doesn't seem convinced. Surely enough, cue the Ominous Latin Chanting and Oh, Crap! expressions from the party as his owl flies in to rise the final boss...
Done once again way back in Final Fantasy Adventure, where you finally meet up with and kill Dark Lord. Then Julius throws you down the waterfall. Again.
The Fire Emblem series does this frequently. In some games, the game does not continue past the "fake ending" if you haven't collected all the Plot Coupons.
Mystery of the Emblem: You've defeated Emperor Hardin! Wait... he was just Brainwashed and Crazy? And Gharnef is still out there, planning to resurrect Medeus again? Oh, Crap!. (In the remake, the leader of the assassins working for Gharnef is still at large too, further hinting that you can't be done yet)
Genealogy of the Holy War: An extremely cruel example. You've defeated both of the corrupt nobles plotting to seize power, Arvis even turned on them and helped you defeat the last one! And the stage is set for Sigurd's triumphant homecoming... wait, did Arvis just sentence Sigurd to death for treason? And are those mages preparing to execute your entire party?! Guess their descendants will have to fix things after a Time Skip...
The Binding Blade: You've defeated the Big Bad... but his literal Dragon is still out there, and is continuing with his plan to "free the world" because Undying Loyalty is basically hardwired into her. And she's not really evil after all, and Roy might know a way to save her...
The Blazing Blade: Eliwood finally gets to the Dread Isle to save his father... just in time for him to die in his arms. At which point you find out there's a greater plot involving the Big Bad that you have to stop.
The Sacred Stones: Ephriam's route only. You get to the capital of The Empire and kill the emperor... except he was just a reanimated corpse all along, and his son Prince Lyon is the real Big Bad.
Path of Radiance: An interesting example because it only counts In-Universe. Ike's army reaches the incredibly ominous looking Daein Keep and prepares for the final battle with King Ashnard. All the characters in-story think this is the end... but the player knows that Ashnard has long since left the castle. Ike doesn't even find out until you have him move into the throne room and not find Ashnard there like he expects, while as a player you can clearly see the chapter's boss is someone else entirely the moment you begin the battle. The chapter is even titled "Without a King".
Radiant Dawn itself makes the ending of Path of Radiance one. You thought defeating Ashnard would prevent the Dark God being released from the medallion? That was only the beginning... and later in Radiant Dawn the supposed Dark God is released... and it turns out things are a lot more complicated than they seem.
Awakening: You've stopped Validar's plans to revive the Fell Dragon Grima, and averted Chrom's fated death! Hey, remember that Hierophant you were introduced to 10 chapters ago? Turns out that's Grima from the future, and he revives his past self and teams up with him. Oh, Crap!.
Fates: Conquest: You've finally put down the Big Bad Garon, and everything's going to be OK! You've saved Nohr and Hosh— [twang, as an arrow of pure darkness passes inches away from your head] ...Uh, oh... Takumi's back, he's possessed, and he's madder then ever! Cue Final Boss battle.
First Encounter Assault Recon does this constantly, starting from the very first mission where you are sent to assassinate Paxton Fettel, only for him to club you on the head and escape.
In The Flame in the Flood, you finally make it to the "evacuation site" at Angel Yards, though Scout nearly drowns in the process. It turns out A.N.G.E.L. Yard is a space center, and the only rocket left is long out of commission. Scout's only option left is to keep going down river and hope she makes it to "the Kingdom".
Gears of War does this. At the end of the third act (out of five), you plant the Resonator to map the Locust tunnels. And... it doesn't work. Luckily, the main character's dad has a complete map at his lab.
Multiple times in Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. The President gets recaptured, your ride gets blown up/shot down, the nuclear football gets stolen and moved several times, and so on.
Ghosts 'n Goblins is the quote provider. After defeating the Final Boss it turns out the battle was "a trap devised by Satan". The player is then forced to replay the entire game on a higher difficulty level before finally reaching the true final battle.
The Sega Genesis port of Golden Axe has the players defeat Death Adder and rescue the king and princess just like the arcade version. Here, however, the king mentions the fortress Death Adder appears from, leading to another (even harder) level and a showdown against Death Bringer.
In Golden Sun, Isaac and friends have finally cornered Saturos and Menardi at the top of Venus Lighthouse and demand the last of the Elemental Stars so the power of Alchemy can be sealed again, along with the hostages. Nope! Saturos gave the Jupiter Star to Felix and sent him ahead with the hostages. Better yet? That's the end of the first game. Damn you, Saturos!
The Lost Age pulls one of these on you in the final boss battle with the Doom Dragon. Damage from summons is decided by the size of the foe's hitpoint meter, so most bosses, even Memetic Badass Dullahan, can be taken out by spamming summons all at once. The Doom Dragon is unique for having three forms, each with its own hitpoint meter. Instead of ending the boss battle quickly, a summon rush just kills the weaker first form and begins the far stronger second and third forms, with your party massively debuffed from spending all their Djinn on those summons. Oops!
Beat Briggs? Congratulations, you've cleared Piers's name, but now his Black Orb has been stolen by the Kibombo and he's gone to retrieve it.
Just made it to the top of any of the Rocks? Nice job, but now you have to go through a whole interior labyrinth about twice as long to complete the level.
At the Jupiter Lighthouse, you should make it to the aerie a bit sooner than you'd expect for such a climactic level, but you'll probably have a feeling you're missing some stuff... wait, why is the shaft covered? And then you learn why the lighthouse had those side towers on the world map.
Gradius ReBirth, Stage 4. Hey, it's the boss of Stage 1, he's going down! Hey, why won't he die? And why is he charging in my direction and going into the background...oh crap.
In Half-Life 2: Episode 1, you board a train out of the Citadel, having just completed a puzzle-level worthy of being a finale. You think you're out of the city... and the train is derailed by a very large explosion that catches up with you. You then have to fight your way out of the zombie-infested darkness with Alyx to reach the surface and evacuate with the other refugees.
Heavy Weapon pulls one off after you defeat the "final stage". Your tank driver is about to celebrate the defeat of the Red Star forces, but then he gets a transmission showing that the first 9 bosses were a diversion and that the enemy had amassed an army 10 times greater. Cue the first 9 stages again, except with tougher enemies...
In Hiryū no Ken: Ōgi no Sho / Flying Dragon: The Secret Scroll, after winning the World Tournament and defeating Dargon, the leader of the Tusk Soldiers, you're told by your Old Master Juan that the Fuzufu / Dargon you just defeated was a fake. You then have to play through all of the stages (except for the fighting tutorial) all over again and look for four crystals hidden in statues in the platforming stages to complete the Mandara Talisman and defeat the real Fuzufu / Dargon once and for all.
In Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja, you'll believe you've won the game after defeating Takushiki (the leader of the six gods), as everyone you've helped out in the village thanks you one by one as you exit his dungeon. Only problem with that is Izuna's Grandboss still hasn't returned (in The Stinger, he's shown touching the same sacred crystal that Izuna saw outside the shrine at the beginning of the game), and there's one path leading out of the village that you haven't been able to visit up until that point. This path leads to a forty-floor Final Dungeon.
In Jade Empire, you've worked your way up the command chain to discover that, instead of being a puppet controlled by Death's Hand, the Emperor is truly behind everything that's happened. You defeat the Emperor, rescuing Master Li, and then Master Li walks over to you, congratulates you on how far you've come, and kills you with a few well-placed punches, revealing the plot to be a Gambit Roulette. Cue the lengthy final chapter of the game.
Kid Icarus: Uprising pulls this. After defeating Medusa, NES-fashioned credits scroll on, the characters relieved that they stopped her once again, then BAM, Hades, the TRUE lord of the Underworld, is revealed to have been behind everything, including the revival of Medusa.
Killer7 pulls this off at the end of Smile, Part 1. The whole level has various characters building up this chapter as the big climactic finish, and when you finally get to the end of the stage, instead of finding the person you were looking for, you instead find two shadowy figures (Young Harman and Dmitri Nightmare) who just dismissively tell you he's not here and you should go somewhere else.
Kingdom Hearts II: You beat Xemnas in suitably epic fashion, albeit with relative ease, along with a good, long cutscene with characters ready to head home. Anyone who took a look at the OST would know that there's one more boss theme left...
The Kirby series, on occasion:
Kirby's Adventure: All the pieces of the Star Rod have been retrieved and King Dedede's been defeated! Now Kirby will go to the Fountain of Dreams and restore everyone's dreams, and I'll get to see the happy ending! What the? "Level 8"? How can there be a ...? Oh no.
Kirby's Return to Dream Land: Kirby and company retrieve the broken parts of the Lor Starcutter in the span of five worlds. Then Magolor takes them to Planet Halcandra, where they must retrieve the Master Crown. Cue Worlds 6 and 7.
The same game pulls it yet again. After retrieving the Master Crown from the creature you were meant to destroy, Magolor is revealed to have been evil all along. Cue Gradius-like shooting level and then the REAL final boss.
In Left 4 Dead campaign The Sacrifice, you activate the generators and lower the bridge, allowing you to escape from the undead hordes unscathed...right? Wrong, the bridge stops short and somebody has to restart the generator, sacrificing himself to allow the others to escape.
The custom campaign "I Hate Mountains" does this on a somewhat larger scale. The second level is engineered specifically to look like a finale stage: relatively short length, a defensible location chock full of items, and a means of calling for help. But after you summon the helicopter and run all the way from the top of the mansion to the helipad, the zombies crash the chopper. No nice clean endings here!
The Legend of Zelda:
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess does this when you obtain the Fused Shadows, but then Zant comes along and mugs you. So you have to go on another quest to find yet another set of Mirror Shards, so that you can get them back.
Something similar happens in The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time with the spiritual stones and the eponymous ocarina. Now all you've got to do is open the Door of Time and pull out the Master Sword, right? Turns out Ganondorf was counting on you to do just that so that he could waltz right into the Sacred Realm and get his hands on the Triforce. Of course, why would they bother throwing in the Master Sword if you're not going to use it?
Also at the end of OoT, you fight Ganondorf and seemingly kill him. It's over, right? Not quite. Ganondorf then tries to destroy the remains of his castle with you in it. But that was easy to escape. But as one final twist, Ganon turns into a huge demon-pig-thing.
In Majora's Mask, when you think all you have to do is collect the four masks and stop the moon, you then have to fight Majora.
The second assault on Forsaken Fortress in The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. Complete it and you've saved your sister, but are only halfway through the game and have a Ganon to defeat.
Played with in The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, as Zelda is going to the same dungeons... Link just keeps missing her several times, but makes eye contact with her twice. And then, at the end Link has destroyed the Imprisoned, Zelda is awakened, and everyone gets a happy reunion... until Ghirahim shows up, incapacitates everyone, kidnaps Zelda, and mocks Groose's hair.
The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past. You've collected the three Plot Coupons, retrieved the Sword of Plot Advancement, and stormed the castle. Now all that's left is to defeat this evil wizard guy, but that ends up being the hardest part: Agahnim, during the battle, sends Link to the Dark World, and the latter is told by Sahasrahla that he has to rescue seven maidens there. Up to that point, Link had only completed one third of his quest.
The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds. You've collected the three Plot Coupons, retrieved the Sword of Plot Advancement, and stormed the castle. Now all that's left is to defeat this evil wizard guy, but that ends up being the hardest part: Yuga, during the battle, sends Link to Lorule, and the latter is told by Princess Hilda that he has to rescue seven sages there. Up to that point, Link had only completed one third of his quest. ...Wait a minute...
Hyrule Warriors tries really hard to make you think the final battle against Cia is the end of the game. You've already beat Ganondorf, the Triforce of Power is recovered, the heroes all return to their respective eras, and Link, Zelda, and Impa all live Happily Ever After... Until Ganondorf comes back and hijacks the plot anyway. For bonus points, you get to play as Ganon during the aforementioned hijacking.
This one is at least foreshadowed: Ganondorf's spirit was split into four pieces, and Cia freed three of them before the game starts. The fourth one is sealed by the Master Sword, but the heroes have Link draw it anyway, because it's the one weapon strong enough to beat Cia. Lana is confident that the magic of the place will hold Ganondorf's spirit in check by itself. Yeah, she was wrong.
LEGO Marvel: Avengers: One quest in Asgard has the player solve a puzzle to unlock Laufey. Just as they do it, the actual Laufey rushes in and nicks his own character token, requiring the player to pummel him a bit so they can get it for real.
Even Limbo pulls this off. A decent way through the game, you find yourself emerging from an industrial factory area into a little forest with a treehouse and the girl the protagonist is looking for—but then a Brain Slug hops onto your head and forces you to run the other way. If you get the slug off your head and run back, the treehouse and forest aren't there any more... (and you might have guessed the game wasn't going to end yet if you noticed the chapter archive for the various areas).
Little Busters!: In a rare example where the revelation that the ending was fake is actually a good thing, at the end of Refrain Little Busters comes to an apparently conclusive (if extremely depressing) Downer Ending, and it's only after three minutes of credits (and, likely, sobbing on behalf of the player) that the game goes black...and then gives you one final choice, which leads to the epilogue and the true ending. (Or, if not the true one, at least a much happier one.)
Lufia II: Rise of the Sinistrals provides an in-game situation where the party think defeating Gades the God of Destruction will end everything until they realize a few years later that there are three more gods to fight.
Mass Effect:
In Mass Effect 3, the Crucible had been activated, Shepard and Anderson having a view of the Earth and for a moment it seems like the game will soon end. But as it turns out, the Crucible is not activating and Shepard ended up getting taken up an elevator and has to make a final choice out of 3 options that will decide the fate of the galaxy.
Mass Effect: Andromeda: The visit to Meridian. Ryder and squad fight their way through hordes of kett, along with the Big Bad's main henchwoman, learn a few shocking facts, and find... they're not actually at Meridian, they're just at the control hub. The real Meridian is A: Much bigger, and B: Missing, thanks to its creators suffering a case of "Oh, Crap! Let's get out of here!" After a quest of figuring out where it's gotten to, it looks like everything's going to work out... only for the Archon to suddenly steal the Hyperion, SAM, and Ryder's sibling, and nearly kill Ryder in the process.
In Max Payne 3's first chapter, you rescue Rodrigo and his Trophy Wife Fabiana, only for the latter to be captured again in the second chapter and taken away to several more "castles", before ultimately being Stuffed into the Fridge.
In MechAssault, the Wolf's Dragoons were sent to Helios to disable the Word of Blake's orbital guns so a full invasion can commence. Right after the orbital guns are destroyed, they receive new orders.
Mega Man X Command Mission pulls this off VERY effectively. OK so you defeated the Big Bad who turned out to be a Well-Intentioned Extremist. And you've secured the MacGuffin. Time to go home. Wait... What the fu—? Why is our transport shooting at us?!! Our commanding officer turned on us?! WHAAAAAT?!!
Mega Man Battle Network 3. Okay, so we've got the super weapon and tracked down the Big Bad and defeated The Dragon...wait, what's Bass doing there? Craaaap.
In Mega Man 4-6, you have to go through one castle that has the fake villain. After that, you have to storm over to Dr. Wily's castle to defeat him. Worse in 6, because Mr. X is a poorly disguised Wily and you still need to go through two castles. The Game Boy/World spin-off series (except for V/World 5) does this as well, only in a different way. Just when you think that you're getting close to Dr. Wily, he escapes to his second castle (which is usually in outer space).
In the obscure NES game Mendel Palace, after clearing all of the doll houses and 9 of the eponymous palace's levels, you are about to face off with the witch...only for her to whisk you off into another palace in the sky.
Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. You've nearly finished the Virtuous Mission and just need to get to the extraction point. Then one of your Mission Control characters betrays you and after a long cutscene, the opening credits run. Well, Metal Gear Solid did this with the initial sneaking in, although it was much shorter; and Metal Gear Solid 2 did this with the Tanker mission, although it was significantly longer. They've always been more of a 'pre-credit sequence' than a fake ending, though.
Might and Magic VI pulls this twice in quick succession. For the first half of the game you're trying to speak with the Oracle, which requires the approval of all six lords of the land. After running all their quests, it turns out that one council member is still voting no in defiance of his lord's wishes, and you have to run another quest to expose him as The Mole.
Then, after meeting the Oracle, she won't speak to you until after you've run four tough dungeons. (The reason being that the Oracle is actually an ancient supercomputer that has been sabotaged. The four dungeons contain spare parts that you need to repair it.)
In Modern Warfare 2, it looks like Task Force 141, after heavy losses and a mad dash from Makarov's safehouse, are about to secure the intelligence on Makarov which will spell the end of his entire operation. They reach the extraction point, where General Shepherd and a small army of his troops are ready to evacuate them. Then Shepherd shoots Roach and Ghost to cover up what happened, dumps them in a pit, and sets them on fire. The game continues from there, with Price and Soap setting out to hunt down and kill Shepherd.
In the mission "Heat" from Modern Warfare 1, you fall back from the advancing Ultranationalists to the planned LZ at the farm, only to find out it's too hot due to SAM's, then you have to push back through the lines to get to the new LZ at the bottom of the hill.
In the NES Monster in My Pocket game, you defeat Warlock and then watch TV as peace has been restored. Then he shows up again, providing the Victory Fakeout quote.
The heroes of Ni No Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch believe that they have defeated the Big Bad and brought peace to the land, only to learn that they had only taken out The Dragon and that the true Woman Behind The Man has moved up her plans for global destruction. In this case the trope is applicable only in-Universe to the characters; cutscenes throughout the game showed The Dragon meeting with the actual Big Bad (the eponymous White Witch, whose presence is also essentially given away by the game's title) so players knew that the in-game celebrations were premature. Then the game goes and plays it completely straight at the end: after talking the actual Big Bad into a Heel–Face Turn, her "council" — previously revealed to be a projection of her own mind — reveals itself to have somehow developed its own independent and malevolent will, leading to the final battle.
No More Heroes: It seems like you're finally the number one assassin; finally defeating everyone else. I guess it's time to use the potty... then before you know it, an assassin busts in and cuts your head off. Unless you get the good ending, where you have to fight your brother.
ObsCure: The Aftermath combines this with The Stinger, going so far as to actually roll the end credits before the big twist. Just when you think you've beaten the Final Boss and killed the mortifilia outbreak at its source... Professor James reveals himself to be The Mole working for a Greater-Scope Villain and kidnaps the surviving protagonists. Then you find yourself stripped of your weapons and running for your life, before facing the True Final Boss.
Ōkami has two false climactic dungeons: Orochi's Cave one third of the way through the game, and then Oni Island, at about roughly the two thirds point. While before you enter these areas the game heavily portrays them as being The Very Definitely Final Dungeon, once you're actually inside, they have a curiously lighthearted and unhurried atmosphere. The real final dungeon on the other hand is treated with the appropriate amount of melodrama and gravity.
Then there's the fact that when you get to Orochi's Cave and Oni Island, you still haven't collected all thirteen brush techniques yet...
Ōkami did this so often that the place felt like an Expansion Pack World. "Yay! We're done! But what's this area over HERE for?"
Continued in Ōkamiden, and they went all-out to make it convincing. Got all the brush techniques? Yep. Appropriately climactic dungeon? Heck, it's a two-parter. Is the guy threatening? He has a Humongous Mecha Moon Rabbit (Daidarabotchi) going to destroy the world if you lose. Unique and lengthy fight music? Uh-huh. Is King Fury the final boss? HELL NO.
In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, you've defeated Bowser and Kammy after beating Grodus, it must be over right? Not so fast, bucko! It seems that Grodus has survived and has taken Peach to a secret chamber! Things can't get any worse, right? WRONG!!
Before that, Chapter 4 has you ascend Creepy Steeple to stop a curse turning the villagers into pigs, and fight a name-unknown ghost who copies you. Goombella even notes how quick that went... wait... why am I a shadow?
Happens in Perfect Dark, after you've blown up the undersea superweapon and saved the world. Time to put on your best dress and meet the President! Whoops, change of plans... time to defend your headquarters against a surprise invasion, get kidnapped, and single-handedly defeat a warlike alien race on its own planet.
Persona:
At the start of Persona 3, you are told that you have "one year" to save the world. You get told that you can do this by defeating all of the Arcana Shadows. You manage this after seven months. Surely nothing can go wrong now.
Persona 3 doubles with Interface Spoiler and Late-Arrival Spoiler in numerous ways: you haven't finished maxing multiple social links (it would be impossible by that point); fusion should reveal personae that are still out of reach due to your level (while the game simultaneously punishes you for grinding, so why are they showing you personae and even a whole new arcana if it's game over?); Tartarus has dead-ended and not all of Elizabeth's 100 requests have appeared; and if you've so much as checked a single strategy guide due to That One Boss, then you know the game's not over. The game does attempt to mislead you by having two social links max out, suggesting that the endgame has begun, but by the time the "celebration" starts with two crucial characters missing, you should know what's going on. The fact that you're told you have "a year" at the start of the game is another clue that you can't end it all in October.
Then this happens a few more times in Persona 4. The first two are easy to see coming (the random guy spying on Rise isn't the real murderer, and Mitsuo was just a copycat). But THEN if you realize that Namatame's Shadow is acting suspiciously and stop the others from throwing him into the TV it still turns out you haven't caught the right guy. And even after you catch the actual culprit, you can only get the True Ending if you invoke this trope during the ending sequence. In fact, this is basically the theme of the game - you're looking for the truth, and if you stop before you've answered every question (in this case, finding out who gave the culprit the powers he used to commit the crimes), you don't deserve the best ending.
Persona 5: Masayoshi Shido is the head of The Conspiracy, the guy who got you on probation for his crime, and a personal enemy of several other teammates. Surely he's gotta be the Final Boss, right? Except The Conspiracy keeps going after you take him down. Cue Mementos Depths and a showdown with the Greater-Scope Villain, the Holy Grail/Yaldabaoth/"Igor", who at one point flat-out says "the game isn't over yet".
In Case 2 of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney: Trials and Tribulations, after you prove your client innocent of theft by proving that he was in another place at the time. Right after the verdict, it is found that at the same time as the theft, there was a murder exactly where you proved he was. At which point you then have to prove that the guy that you've proven as the real thief is actually the real murderer, despite the fact that he did indeed pull off both crimes, which happened at the same time. Phoenix understandably freaks out several times. A very memorable case.
Don't forget the first game. Despite a bit of interference, you manage to prove Edgeworth isn't the murderer... and then it turns out the whole trial was a Batman Gambit by Manfred von Karma to get Edgeworth to confess to his own father's murder 15 years ago.
At the end of P.N.03's first mission, Vanessa faces Sonnenblume, but after hitting it a few times, her client deems her not powerful enough and teleports her out. You finally get to destroy it in the third mission.
Pokémon:
In Pokémon Red and Blue, the dragon master Lance is set up as the final boss. As even casual fans know by now, he isn't; the true champion is Blue/Green/Gary/Asshat/Whatever the heck you named him. Likewise, in the sequel, both Lance and Blue are set up as the final boss at separate points, with Lance qualifying as a Disc-One Final Boss as well. There is actually little indication that the the true final boss awaits at the top of Mt. Silver, where you meet a trainer that greets you with "......". Cue the collective shock of millions of children during the height of the Pokémon craze as they face Red, the player character from the original games, with the highest-leveled mons in the entire series.note 
In Ruby, Sapphire, Diamond, Pearl and especially Emerald and Platinum after you beat the game, you have a small island to explore. Also, if you beat the Champion 20 times in D/P/PL, your rival's Pokémon gain multiple levels, in Platinum even if he is the most leveled NPC in any Pokémon.
Due to Black & White being a semi-throwback to the original games, you once again defeat the Elite Four, climb the suitably epic ascent to the Champion to find... N (the antagonist) has defeated him with his new uber-dragon. He then raises a GIANT castle, forces you to catch a giant dragon, and fights you. It then happens AGAIN when Ghetsis takes over for the FINAL final boss fight. And then there's the whole rest of the game where you fight the real Champion, Cynthia (champion of Sinnoh) and Shigeki Morimoto, one of the developers. All of whom are much, MUCH stronger than you'll be after you beat the game.
Well, Nascour... who's facing "the humiliation of total domination" now, bitch? Hi, Mayor, as you can see, I have the situation under... wait, what?
Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 does a fair job of averting it, though you do find out you can board the Team Plasma Frigate one more time after you surf over to the P2 Laboratory, and battle Colress again. His Pokémon took a few levels since the last battle, too. (Although the game does have Bonus Bosses up the yin-yang.)
Lampshaded in Pokémon Sun and Moon. Technically, the first time you beat the Elite four, you are the champion... and Kukui comes in and mentions that even though the player is the champion, s/he technically has to fight one more person for it to count, thus Professor Kukui becomes the True Final Boss.
Professor Kukui: Oh yeah, Now you're the Pokémon League Champion! (shakes his head) Wouldn't it be nice if it were that simple?
This is Played With in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, where Kukui teases himself as the final opponent, then reveals Hau as the True Final Boss.
In Pokémon Gold and Silver, Team Rocket takes over the Radio Tower in Goldenrod City and kidnaps the director. Upon reaching the top floor, the director is actually a Rocket Executive in disguise. The real director is kept in an underground warehouse in the city.
Test Chamber 19 is not the end of Portal. Assuming you realize it and can react fast enough. The fact that the demo of the game featured more than half of the test chambers might have been a tip-off.
In the sequel, Chell and Wheatley successfully replace GLaDOS's head with Wheatley. Wheatley calls up the escape elevator for Chell, she gets in, and the elevator starts rising. Guess what happens next?
Wheatley: I can't get over how small you are, but I'm HUGE! *Starts laughing, which turns into evil laughing after a few seconds* Actually... why do we have to leave right now?
A similar case occurs in E1M6 of Quake where you enter a dark door that looks like an exit, then the room lights up to reveal a Shambler.
In Quake IV, your team attempts to disable the Tetranode with an EMP bomb, but a Strogg Harvester destroys it and kills several of your teammates. Then you try to go for the coolant pumps and cause a meltdown, and en route the Makron shows up. You fight him for a bit, then he paralyzes you with his Dark Matter Gun and takes you to the Stroggification assembly line.
Razing Storm, Stage 3. So you've sniped off all the Mooks, the Kill Sat has killed the Big Bad, and "Mission complete!" appears on the screen. Wait a minute, that was it? Nope, you now have more Mooks and a boss to deal with.
And near the end of Stage 4: One of your comrades, after all the enemies in the area have been destroyed, gloats "Ha ha, total annihilation!" Given that a "WAIT" prompt shows up over this bit of dialogue, this isn't fooling anyone: a few seconds later, the enemy's mothership-like carrier shows up from above.
Although The Reconstruction doesn't actually wrap everything up when the twist is pulled, it looks like it's on a fast track towards doing so. However, just when it looks like you're about to have some climactic final boss fight and Save the World, Qualstio screams in horror as he finds that the Watchers have all been slaughtered. Also, you failed to stop Donz from activating the pillars, so civilization has been nearly wiped out. So, instead of going along with Fell's advice, the rest of the game revolves around stopping the Big Bad and trying to reconstruct civilization.
Red Dead Redemption: The end of the New Austin missions, Mexico missions, and West Elizabeth missions are all made out to be the end of the game, so when the real ending does come it's quite surprising.
After defeating the initial Big Bad in Red Faction II, your CO declares himself dictator, becoming the new Big Bad.
In the first Red Faction, the miners' escape shuttle takes off just as you arrive at the docking bay, then immediately gets shot down. "Maybe being slow isn't such a bad thing", says Hendrix.
Happens many times in the Resident Evil and Dino Crisis series. If you are escaping by helicopter, train, or plane, it will get shot down (Dino Crisis, Resident Evil 3, and Resident Evil 4), attacked by mutants (Resident Evil 2), or redirected to the enemy base (Resident Evil – Code: Veronica, and Resident Evil: Revelations).
Of them all, Resident Evil 2 easily has the most well-done example. The starting "A" scenario for each character ends with a touching moment on their getaway train followed a cut to black. Playing through the same character's "B" scenario continues past this point with them being interrupted by an ominous jostling of the train, and then comes the real climax and ending.
In Resident Evil 4, Damsel in Distress Ashley Graham gets recaptured at least twice.
Rogue Galaxy, where the hero actually announces "This...will be our Final Battle!" before the boss fight against Mother...whoops! Another character gets to say the exact same line a few minutes later, as the three Goldfish Poop Gang villains and their Cool Ship get sucked into a pit of volatile magical lava stuff and emerge as The Demon Battleship.
Happened twice in Saints Row. Finally defeated all those pesky gangs and took over the city, what's that? Being blackmailed by the police chief into doing jobs for him? Managed to kill the bastard, nothing left to do but enjoy- huh? The mayor was really responsible and is planning to destroy the Saints? And then the boat trip happens.
Again in the sequel but a bit more expected. Destroyed the gangs and reclaimed the city? Time to fight the massive corporation that's been dicking around the entire game.
Scratches: So you finished crafting the sacred totem, you then used it to confront the cursed mask and exorcise the curse from the mansion, your work here is done, let's leave this place... Wait, what's that sound?
A minor version of this crops up early in the Hell Dimensions arc of The Secret World. Basically, after spending an action mission trying to stop the demonic invasion of Earth from progressing beyond its beachhead, followed by an investigation mission spent trying to find out what happened to Theodore Wicker, players finally get a Dungeon: they have to venture into Hell itself in a desperate attempt to end the invasion at its source and rescue Wicker - who is actually being used as a Living Battery for the demonic army's portals. For good measure, you're led through the Dungeon by a female voice claiming to be a Damsel in Distress allied with Wicker. After a long uphill slog, players finally reach Wicker and unplug him from the machine, with the expectation that the invasion will be over and their target can now go home to all the factions that have been trying to recruit him for the last few decades... only to discover that Wicker doesn't want to leave: now a Demon of Human Origin, he wants to start a revolution among the demons and restore Hell to greatness - and guess who has to help him out over the next few dungeons before this arc's finished? As if to add insult to injury, the voice that's been leading you through Hell is revealed to be Saccharissa, a succubus in Wicker's service, who actually has the gall to taunt you by remarking "Your princess is in another castle!"
This happens repeatedly in Shadow Hearts Covenant. So you've unsealed Yuri's Amon fusion, defeated Grigori Rasputin/Asmodeus and destroyed Idar Flamme, that means you've saved the world (again), right? Wrong, now Nicholai has fused with Astaroth and wants to destroy it. OK, so you've kicked Nicholai/Astaroth's ass, surely THIS time the world is safe? Wrong again, now Ouka's death has driven Kato over the edge and HE wants to destroy the world too. It was arguably one too many, as Kato made for a pretty unsatisfying end boss.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War: "The Bright Lord" mission presents itself as the endgame and urges you to complete all side-missions as the very nature of the game changes after you complete it. ... and turns out, Talion (read: You) is abandoned by his wraith Celebrimbor, who was also animating his corpse after he was executed in the previous game. He saves himself from dying by putting on Isildur's ring. Point is they weren't kidding, some of your abilities are permanently changed, you can't go back to do the sidequests, and you must complete the Shadow Wars Siege quests in the Playable Epilogue to get the true ending.
At the end of Shockwave: Operation Jumpgate, the Omaha has successfully pushed the invading aliens out of the Sol System and back through the eponymous jumpgate. All seems well until the last thirty seconds or so of the ending cutscene: The Omaha's commander, believing the jumpgate's existence to be too great a risk, decides to disobey her orders and destroy it. The Omaha gets a single shot off before the jumpgate's automated defenses retaliate, blasting the Omaha to hell and back, causing it to fall through the gate itself to parts unknown. This is picked up on in Shockwave 2.
Silent Hill 3 has a self-contained example in the Borley Haunted Mansion. After making her way through a series of nerve-wracking but mostly harmless rooms, Heather comes to a door marked "EXIT", and the narrator pipes up with "There's the exit." She steps through the door, and... "That was supposed to be the exit." Have fun running from the red mist of doom!
Sonic the Hedgehog:
Sonic the Hedgehog (2006): "It looks like the Princess was moved to another location." Really?
Sonic Unleashed: "Oh yay, I put all the continents together using the Chaos Emeralds except for one of them! Let's seal that last one-" (Dark Gaia becomes fully powered.) "Aw fu-!"
Sonic and the Black Knight, too. Complete with ending credits before it's revealed that the "Princess" has been in another castle all along.
Sonic Generations: the goal of Crisis City Act 1 gets stolen under your eyes in the most trollish way possible.
Space Quest 3 tricked the player like this when you managed to free the Two Guys from Andromeda (the pen name of the game's authors). The game gave you a large chunk of points (used to indicate how many of the puzzles you'd solved) and starts to congratulate you. Then the walls opened up the big, bad, evil guy and his troops are behind them. Your points are docked back off you and the game continues.
Near the end of Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, you've disabled seemingly all the ND133 virus bombs and captured Big Bad Suhadi Sadono, but The Dragon, Norman Soth, has escaped with the last "pox box" and is preparing to detonate it at LAX.
One of the endings of The Stanley Parable uses this trope, where the Narrator finishes a playthrough by resetting the game, but subsequent playthroughs continue toward the actual ending. The ending only comes from the game resetting itself after the Narrator finds out he was being Railroaded into completing this ending. The fact that one Loading Screen reads as "THE END IS NEVER THE END IS NEVER THE END IS NEVER THE END" is fairly prophetic...
Star Fox:
Star Fox pulls this with both of the Venom Surface levels, where the boss you fought in space returns, goes down in a few hits, only to turn One-Winged Angel.
Star Fox Adventures pulls it twice, though the second time isn't that far from the end. The first time, Fox figures that all there is to bringing the planetary chunks back together is... saving the queen's son. Yeah, right. Later, the placing of the four Spellstones does bring the planet back together long enough for him to prematurely declare the mission accomplished, only to find that it's not, and he discovers that those Spirits he's been collecting and releasing are actually important to the mission.
Street Fighter II The World Warrior surprises first time players by introducing three (non-playable) bosses to the world map after the first seven matches against the regular roster. The last of which is Sagat, the final boss of the original Street Fighter and the presumed final boss of the sequel. Upon defeating him however (no easy task), the game returns to the map screen and another boss appears: M.Bison. This is averted in later updates where the bosses are playable and the sequence which introduces them is skipped.
Streets of Rage 3: You're going to defeat Mr. X and it's only the fifth level! Oh, it was Actually a Doombot and you have to keep going (well the latter isn't surprising). Unless you're playing on the lowest difficulty, in which case you get Easy-Mode Mockery.
In Suikoden V, you kill Gizel Godwin and liberate Sol Falena. But since the game doesn't seem to be ready to end right away, what else could there be? Marscal Godwin stole the Sun Rune, and has fled to a temple where he is going to use it to melt a glacier, flooding the Feitas River. Better go take care of that. It figures that there would have to be a Nintendo Hard boss battle before the end.
Suikoden has a liking to do this. Suikoden II has the Hero defeating the Big Bad Luca halfway through the game. Given the time it gets you to reach this point, you might be led to thinking this is the end of the game... but you haven't yet recruited the 107 Stars, have you?
Super Contra, in its original arcade version, had Emperor Demon Gava as its Final Boss, but the NES adaptation, Super C, continues for two stages afterwards, with Shadow Beast Kimkoh as the new final boss.
Super Mario Bros. series:
This trope gets its name from the original game with the Mushroom Retainers (Toads) saying the well known line that actually goes: "Thank you Mario! But our Princess is in another castle!", forcing you to go through four more stages and seven more worlds. Then the Princess also symbolically does this at the end of the game by informing Mario that he was finally successful but there's another quest waiting for him. (Actually the same game with all goombas replaced by beetles and the enemies moving faster.)
And in the Famicom and Virtual Console versions of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels you have to play through the game seven more times without warping to reach the final four worlds and the true ending.
Super Mario Bros. 3: Parodied when the Princess herself says it as a joke. Also, the entire World 8 is technically this trope. Your original mission was to save the kings of seven different kingdoms from Bowser. You do that and you're supposed to think the game's over, only to find out that while you've been out saving kings, Bowser has taken the princess and you must travel to his world to save her.
The phrase was actually used in an early draft of the Super Mario Bros. movie.
In New Super Mario Bros. Bowser Jr. actually drags Princess Peach from one castle to the next (which is subject to quite a bit of Fridge Logic of its own).
Super Mario Land had Mario rescue a fake princess after every boss, which quickly turned into a monster (based on the theme of the world) and ran off.
In Super Mario 3D World, once the seventh and final Sprixie is saved, Bowser pulls back the red victory screen, recaptures all seven Sprixies at once, and takes them to the real final world.
Played for laughs in NES Remix, during the mission where the Super Mario Bros. 2 incarnation of Princess Peach has to rescue her Super Mario Bros. 3 counterpart after the battle with Bowser. Upon entering the room, SMB3 Peach tells SMB2 Peach that she is in another castle.
The Super Mario World hack "Super Mario Infinity" does this about FOUR times over the course of the game. First you're fighting through normal levels, and having to defeat Bowser. After getting through the final world, involving fighting him in every other level, it turns out Big Boo and Kamek were plotting against everyone including Bowser; cue another world with boss battles in every level, and a level with TWO 16 stage Marathon Bosses. After this, it still doesn't end, cue an airship and prison level. Then a Pit of 100 Trials. It's at this point some previously unknown great evil has been plotting to destroy reality, so when that plot point becomes known, there's another world to explore, complete with a 100 floor tower and ANOTHER Marathon Boss. Then you get a star in the box at the top of the screen, which allows you to return to the first level and fight a Bonus Boss... In case that was too lengthy, the ends of these videos show what we mean:
Twist 1 (Big Boo and Kamek have secret second plan)
Twist 2 (Evil Maniac was sealed in void
Secret Bonus Boss after all that
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate: Hooray! You defeated Galeem, the Big Bad of Adventure Mode. Surely, the heroes now stand triumphant- Wait a minute, is that a goddamn crack in the sky?
Tales of Monkey Island Chapter 4: The Trial and Execution of Guybrush Threepwood seems to wrap everything up...until you realize there's a fifth chapter. It involves getting killed and wandering around the afterlife which includes several rehashed elements disguised as portals. Naturally, you have to enter the real world, return to your body and face the Big Bad again at the end.
The Tales Series does this a lot.
The ending of the Journey of Salvation, the pact with Luna, the attack on the Tower of Salvation, and the foray into the Treant's Forest in Tales of Symphonia. Each time the characters are absolutely convinced that this battle will be their last, and each time they are utterly wrong. Of course, most of these occur in Disc 1, which is a dead giveaway that there's more to come.
After defeating Dhaos in Tales of Phantasia. Right at the point where the party members are saying their goodbyes and preparing to go home, having defeated the Big Bad, excitement happens.
Tales of Vesperia does not let you down in this area either. Interestingly enough, you can be sure that Alexei isn't the final boss, but not because of a lack of skills and equipment or because the world map is largely unexplored (quite the opposite for both), but because plotwise, there are still a ton of unanswered questions. You didn't really think they were just gonna forget about the Adephagos, didja? Or that Duke would ever be left unexplained?
Tales of Hearts initial plotline is retrieving several MacGuffins, scattered fragments of a main character's soul. When this is done, the actual plot suddenly bursts forth from it, and the hapless gamer finds that he has about 20 more hours of game to go. (As it should be; the Spirune arc wraps up around the 25-hour mark.)
Tales of Destiny doesn't disappoint either. So you've chased Lydon all around the world, finally cornering him and ending his plans. The Eye of Atamoni is secure beneath Darilsheid castle, the Swordians have gone back to sleep, and our hero says his goodbyes and returns to his tiny hometown. The world is safe once again, right? Cue the second half of the game.
Tales of the Abyss has it, too, in epic fashion. Despite parts of the world being unexplored, you might actually believe it's the final dungeon — it's the longest one in the game, or very nearly so, and the true Big Bad is waiting for you at the bottom, and you sure do (seem to) kill him at the end of the fight, followed by saving the world using the plan you've devised, changing the face of it forever. You've resolved the main plot so thoroughly, there's actually a month-long timeskip between that and the last third of the game.
Tales of the Tempest - yay, we've defeated the Pope, so humans and Lycanths can get along, right? No, the Pope was being controlled by the king, and we still have a pile of plot twists to get through.
This Is the Only Level. "But is the level over?"
The first Time Crisis game sets up the main villain as Sherudo Garo, a knife-throwing, somewhat effeminate gentleman who has kidnapped the President's daughter. Strangely you do battle with him in only the second act (of three). After killing him, you go to release the captive before realising she is now in the possession of Sherudo's Dragon, Wild Dog, who you battle in the final confrontation.
The fourth case of Touch Detective. You manage to figure out that it's not a murder case, manage to get all the evidence that points to this being true, convince Penelope that it's safe to come out of her room, start watching the credits, and Penelope barges in saying "the case isn't solved yet!". Did you really think that this case was only going to be one part long when all the others are 2 parts?
Trauma Center does this with Episode 2-9, "Please Let Me Live". You open up the patient, suture a few incisions, and... experienced players restore vitals before they suture the last one. Because when you do, new lacerations burst into view. Meet Kyriaki, the first GUILT virus.
That scene may cause shouts of "IT'S A FREAKING PTERODACTYL."
The Trouble Shooters game (Battle Mania in Japan) has a rare fake ending in a non-RPG, where the credits actually start rolling before the villain interrupts them; the real credits appear after the next level.
Tsukihime: After killing Nero Chaos, Shiki assumes that all the vampire problems are over. Arcueid points out the obvious fact that Nero didn't leave corpses and couldn't have been the vampire responsible for most of the incidents. And the savvy reader realizes the story is way too short otherwise.
A very frequent trope in Uncharted, where Nate will sacrifice life and limb to get to the end of an ancient ruin where the reward might be... only to discover another crumb in the trail, or that it was never there (maybe even moved), and almost certainly means he has to go to yet another far away locale. It's especially prevalent when the characters wind up in the actual city the reward is stowed in, but then practically turn it upside-down in the process of finding it. This trope is especially frequent in the third and fourth games, where the folly of doing this is a central theme of the plot and, in the latter's case, the backstory too.
Valkyria Chronicles 4: You reach the enemy capital, resolve the situation with the Fantastic Nuke, and even exchange some civil words with old enemies. Then a giant submarine appears out of nowhere, and you have to defeat it. Then the sub spawns an amphibious tank, and you have to defeat that.
Marie: You're cleared for deployment, Squad E. Please, let's end this once and for all.
Veigues: Tactical Gladiator has a cutscene that looks like the ending until a huge battleship starts to rise from the ocean.
In Vigilante, the hero must rescue his girlfriend from a street gang called the "Skinheads". Whenever a boss is fought, the truck holding her captive is right there, but every time the boss is defeated, it drives off, and the hero must continue to the next stage.
The Photosphere in Wild ARMs.
Defeating Vinsfeld and his Cocytus terrorist organization in Wild ARMs 2. Hey...why's the sky suddenly turning all sorts of weird colors?
The Deus Ex Machina in Wild ARMs 3.
The first act of WinBack has you attempting to access an express elevator to the Elaborate Underground Base, but one of the bosses blows it up in a last ditch move, forcing you to take a much longer route.
Wonder Boy normally ends at Area 7 (Area 9 in the Master System port), unless you collected all the Dolls, whereupon you go to Area 8 (10) and the True Final Boss.
This trope is more or less invoked at the end of every level in Word Tower except the last level which is more of a Twist Ending.
The World Ends with You: Possibly the most obvious example, because you have yet to understand the roles of just under half of the people on the box when the week ends.
Happens in World of Warcraft in the Trial of the Crusader raid, where the Lich King crashes your victory ceremony to introduce you to the True Final Boss. An Interface Spoiler, combined with most raid leaders' insistence on a Walkthrough for first-timers, makes it a case of It Was His Sled.
In the Twilight Highlands Deathwing engages in personal combat with Alexstrasza which results in the two of them tumbling to the earth. You accompany her son down to where they landed to find a badly wounded Alexstrasza who declares that Deathwing is dead, moments before he rises from where he fell. Fortunately, he is also wounded and retreats before restarting the fight.
Played for laughs at the end of Zuma's Revenge when the fake "final boss" dies in one hit, followed by partial fake credits, only for the real boss to reveal that you'd actually just "defeated" his cook. After that you get to fight his "final form," followed by his true final form, followed (and completed) by a dark mirror version of your character.
Anime and Manga 
20th Century Boys is all about a group of friends reuniting to stop a masked cult leader known only as ''Friend'' from taking over the world, based on a pretend evil plot that they dreamt up in their youth out of boredom. The first part of the series is all about them trying to uncover the cult's plot, which they learn involves destroying Tokyo with a giant mech on the final day of the Twentieth Century. Eventually the attack happens and they set out to stop it. Seeing as how everything so far's been building up to this moment, we must be at the climax of the series, right? Nope, you're only 5 volumes into a 24 volume series, buddy. Turns out that Friend was using the robot (which is actually a fake) so he could destroy it himself and make him and his cult look the hero, whilst framing the actual heroes. Suddenly, the story jumps forward 15 years and Friend is now the leader of an oppressive Japan, with most of the main characters scattered, in prison, or presumed dead. Oh crap.
Bakuman。: The main characters consistently come really close to accomplishing their dreams, only to have to restart from the beginning due to some unforeseen reason.
Black Cat leaves you in disbelief when it pulls this off in episode (if you are watching it on DVD and so realise that it has to end somehow at Episode 24). So, at Episode 20, Creed Diskenth is finally defeated, and carried off by Echidna Parass after Eve disables the nano-machines in his body, making him mortal, and then Mason suddenly turns up, accompanied by Doctor, Shiki and several Chrono numbers, announcing that they plan to shape a new world order, resulting in an arc that is even more extravagant than the Apostles of the Stars arc, but that lasts just 4 episodes.
In Code Geass R2 Episode 15, Charles pulls this on Lelouch. After Lelouch geasses Charles to die, which he does, he realizes that he didn't get any answers out of him and starts regretting killing him right off the bat. Wait, Charles is immortal?! Oh, Crap!.
Episode 22 of the first season: Wait, Euphemia's peace proposal is genuine, viable and she knows about Lelouch? My, this could not only solve the episode's issues, but the whole season's main conflict. All they need to do is to walk to the stage and announce it. But the episode is only halfway through...
Episode 11 of Cowboy Bebop has most of the cast in a position (suffering from an unknown poison and days away from coming into human contact) where we're left to assume they all died, apparently. Episode 12 begins with Spike waking up scared from a really bad nightmare.
Death Note: About two thirds of the way through the full story line, Light Yagami uses Misa and Rem to defeat L and then assumes his identity, becoming the 2nd L. L-Kira exalts in finally becoming the God of the New World... Five years later, Light is delighted to discover that 1st L had made provisions for his defeat; he has successors eager to avenge him and show their worth by defeating the one who killed their hero.
In Delicious in Dungeon the party finally slays the Red Dragon, gets Laios's sister back (with complications), and is preparing to return to the surface with the mission a success. All's well that ends well, right? But then a dark elf who is apparently the Lunatic Magician who rules the dungeon appears, drops most of the party through a hole in the ground to what is almost certain death, and takes Falin away, having plans for her as she is now half-dragon (due to being revived by Marcille using the red dragon's corpse as components. Now, Laios begrudgingly accepts that they have to return to the surface to restock on supplies so they can tackle the dungeon again and save his sister. Again.
In Digimon Frontier, after a long and fierce battle, the Legendary Warriors finally defeat Cherubimon, who has been seen as the Big Bad of the series. Then it's revealed that Cherubimon was actually an Unwitting Pawn, having been corrupted by the Man Behind the Man — Lucemon.
In Dragon Ball Z: Goku teleports himself and Cell, who is about to self destruct and take Earth with him, to King Kai's planet. Cell explodes, destroying the planetoid and killing Goku, King Kai, Bubbles and Gregory and Cell himself. It looks like the nightmare's finally over. Then Cell comes back, having managed to regenerate from nearly nothing and having received a massive power-up thanks to his Saiyan DNA (Saiyans receive a power-up after recovering from near-death), and gaining the ability to return to Earth via Goku's Instant Transmission because Cell can learn any technique he's exposed to.
Later, during the battle against Majin Buu, Vegeta, after a lengthy ride through the Heel–Face Revolving Door, sacrifices himself in a final attempt to vaporize the Majin. It looks like he actually pulled it off... Then Buu regenerates.
This happens a lot with Buu. Vegeta thinks he's vaporized Buu with his suicide attack? Buu's regeneration can overpower that. Mr. Satan manages to befriend and talk down Buu? Cue a couple of moronic gunmen shooting him and unleashing Buu's Superpowered Evil Side. Super Buu is blown to bits and then burned in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber? His regen's got that covered. Trapped in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber? He can tear holes between dimensions by screaming. Gohan is now powerful enough to overpower Super Buu? Buu absorbs him. All the Z warriors plus Fat Buu are torn out of Super Buu, reducing him to a childlike form? This one's the worst of them all, because what he lacks in power he more than makes up for in sheer insanity.
This is practically Dragon Ball's hat. You defeated the evil green demon lord with a headbutt through the stomach! Hey, what was that coming out of his mouth? Oh well. You defeated your evil brother from space! ...His much more powerful friends will be along shortly. You defeated the alien warlords! ...But the Plot Coupons that can revive your fallen comrades are on another planet, being hunted by their boss. You defeated their boss and have an Everybody Laughs Ending! ...He rises up and kills your best friend. Okay, you DEFINITELY killed him this time! ...He comes back as a cyborg. This cool new guy killed the cyborg! ...Andro-what-now? Wait, these androids don't seem like much of a problem... turns out, these aren't the real androids, and the real ones are far more powerful. Okay, so the new androids have turned out to be pretty chill — now who's that mysterious green dude drinking people with his tail?
Zamasu in Dragon Ball Super continues the trend, having to be killed three times to finally put him down. Beerus atomizes him in the past? Because of time travel shenanigans, his future selves continue to be a problem. Being bisected from the groin up after enduring a brutal beatdown from Vegito? Hi there, Infinite Zamasu. In the end, after either merging his soul with the Future Trunks multiverse or cloning himself indefinitely with each clone having all the power of Fused Zamasu, it takes Future Zen'o causing a Apocalypse How Class X 5 to the timeline to finally put him down for good.
Fairy Tail: After everybody combines their strength to prevent the lacrima from crashing into Extalia, Erza Knightwalker shoots Pantherlily In the Back, and her army arrives to attack the heroes.
The end of the Tenrou Island arc. The group manage to fend off the dark guild Grimoire Heart and protect the island. All seems well and the only matter now is to have the heroes heal up... And then an evil dragon unintentionally summoned appears.
The Fist of the North Star TV series has a literal example of this trope as Kenshiro enters the hideout of his rival Shin to rescue his kidnapped fiance Yuria, only to be told by Shin's informant and Filler Villain Joker that Shin has moved his army to a new hideout. This also happens in The Movie, when Kenshiro arrives too late to Southern Cross after Raoh has beaten Shin and taken Yuria.
Well, Ed, after only a couple of volumes of Fullmetal Alchemist spanning a few years of misadventures and a recent attack by a serial alchemist-killer, you've finally found a guy who has the thing that will solve all your problems: the Philosopher's Stone. Wait, he won't give it to you? It's got a terrible secret? Well, crap.
Occurs in Fushigi Yuugi. Miaka's quest to summon the god Suzaku looks like it's on track to succeed, but when they finally get all the warriors together for the critical ceremony, it's sabotaged. This requires the good guys to go searching for the Cosmic Keystones that will allow them to try again, which takes up the second half of the series. And ironically, as a direct result of their efforts to sabotage the Suzaku ceremony, the Seiryuu warriors also are prevented from summoning their god, and have to go looking for the same magical items.
GaoGaiGar FINAL serves up a variation in the form of a battle with a bit of a Lensman Arms Race thrown in. Several times during the final battle between 3G and the Sol Masters, it looks as if one side or the other has won the fight only for the other side to come back and kick some more ass. First, all the good guys transform/combine and bust out their best moves, only for the Sol Masters to regenerate and "kill" the heroes. Then Mamoru gets a Determinator moment that kicks off a slew of My Name Is Inigo Montoya moments from the defeated heroes, coupled with more than a few Limit Breaks and Eleventh Hour Superpowers which seem to defeat the villains for real... only for the villains to regenerate in droves, and seemingly kill off any hope for the heroes to win...
Palus Abel: It appears that you've lost, doesn't it?
Soldato-J: ...you think so?
* Cue the dropping of hammers*
In Higurashi: When They Cry, the main characters are all dead, there's a nice ending monologue, and everything looks wrapped up... in the fourth episode. Turns out it is over... Onikakushi-hen, anyway...
Towards the end of Idolmaster: Xenoglossia, Turiavita is destroyed, their island vaporized, and their attack on the city over. However, since all five idol cores were in the same area, Auryn appears where the moon once was and threatens the world, requiring the heroines to stop it in the next (and final) episode.
Inuyasha: Happens a lot to Team Inuyasha whenever they battle Naraku; by the time he goes down for good, they've been to as many castles and killed as many fake Big Bads as Mario himself.
Legend of Galactic Heroes has 'invasions to end the war' happening near constantly. Given that the show is 110 episodes long, no one is really expecting invasions in Episodes 20 or 40 to really succeed.
Subverted in Magical Circle Guru-Guru. After our heroes have defeated their first boss, Kasegi Gold, the stage he appeared on lights up and the heroes freak because they think something worse is about to show up. The good news is, it's just the Old Kita Kita Man. The bad news is that, given Kita Kita Man is an old guy in a hula skirt who dances non-stop, he is arguably worse than Kasegi Gold.
The central plot of Mai-HiME seemingly gets resolved with the defeat of the Searrs Ancient Conspiracy. Even the end credits change... except that can't possibly be it, as it's only Episode 15 of 26. In the next episode, a rather cruel twist is promptly thrown in.
The manga version also throws this in halfway through, when the HiME unite to defeat Nagi and the Orphans. Right after their celebration, Searrs arrives on the scene and shoots everything to hell by deposing Mashiro as headmaster and effectively holding the entire school hostage, stating that she and the HiME have outgrown their purpose now that the Orphans are "no longer a threat".
Mazinger Z: Big Bad Dr. Hell is defeated before the final episode... and, needless to say, the final episode wasn't just a peaceful day. Basically, one of the Co-Dragons was a Dragon with an Agenda was working for a Greater-Scope Villain, and he sent several Robeasts to destroy Mazinger-Z, more powerful than anything Dr. Hell had ever built. They completely succeeded in destroying all Humongous Mecha of the heroes and their Home Base, but before Kouji got killed, he was saved by Tetsuya Tsurugi and his brand-new Humongous Mecha performing the first of his many Big Damn Heroes. All of it was done to set up the sequel, Great Mazinger.
Naruto: Well Sasuke, you finally killed your brother and avenged your clan... wait Itachi was doing it because higher-ups at Konoha told him to? Fuck.
In the Land of Birds filler arc, Naruto, Tenten and Neji seemingly prove that the Strategist impersonated the Cursed Warrior in order to plan a coup at the end of the second episode in the arc. The arc gets more complex from there.
One Piece: Well, Luffy, it seems you finally got to the Sixth Level of Impel Down to rescue your imprisoned older brother. Sure it literally took ten years off your life and you had to suffer eighteen hours of excruciating agony to be healed after being wiped off the floor by the head warden, but at least you got there in ti— Oh, Crap!, it looks like you just missed your brother being transferred to his execution site! Tough break, buddy.
And then you fought your way through the biggest battle that's ever been fought, taking huge amounts of damage, watching people die around you, and you FINALLY rescued Ace. Great! Wait, what's that? Ace got killed? And then Blackbeard showed up and killed Whitebeard and took his world-destroying power? Well, shucks.
Near the end of the Kalos saga of the Pokémon anime, during the climax of Team Flare's plot, Ash, Alain, and Malva manage to defeat Lysandre (who seems to jump off Prism Tower) while Clemont shuts off the device controlling both Zygarde and Serena and Marian rescue Marian's Chespin, Chespie, meaning Team Flare has been stopped. WRONG! Chespie is then sucked into the Megalith at Lysandre Labs, which takes on the form of Zygarde and heads for the Anistar Sundial with the intent of consuming it and creating an energy wave that will end all life. However, Ash and Alain enter the Megalith and rescue Chespie, with the thing shutting down. All over, right? WRONG AGAIN! Lysandre is revealed to still be alive and is now controlling the Megalith, keeping it on its destination.
Happens in Puella Magi Madoka Magica the Movie: Rebellion. Everything seems to be all neatly wrapped up and set for a moderately happy ending... when suddenly Homura decides that she's had enough of Madoka sacrificing her own life for everyone else's sake and uses The Power of Love to become the Satan to Madoka's God, forcibly seal her powers and creating a Lotus-Eater Machine world for her to live in. This is the "rebellion" the title was referring to, and it happens within the last 10-15 minutes or so of the movie. There were hints that this would happen, but they were so vague and subtle that the ending took almost everyone off guard.
At the end of Rebuild of Evangelion 2.0, Shinji apparently starts Third Impact, which those who have watched the original know marks the end of things. This early? Even those who haven't would guess that it's not over given that four films are intended. Well, nope. A lance impales Unit 01 and Kaworu descends in Unit 06. Time to wait for 3.0!
The trope actually pulled double-duty; way to stop Third Impact there, Kaworu, you saved the human race! Wrong, Third Impact happened in those ten or so seconds. More than 90% of the already barely surviving human race is dead and gone. Almost the entirety of 3.0 is one side or the other of the civil war between the remnants of NERV (Gendo, Fuyutsuki, Rei and Kaworu) and everyone else seemingly about to win only for enough plot twists to arise to make M. Night Shyamalan get dizzy!
3.0 pulls this trope again: according to Kaworu, he and Shinji can use the two spears buried deep beneath NERV to undo the damage from (Near) Third Impact. But when they get there, there are two identical spears, instead of the two different ones Kaworu expected to find. Shinji tries to use them anyway, and ends up causing yet another Impact. Kaworu kills himself to stop it, thoroughly traumatizing Shinji and putting everyone else back to square one.
A couple of good examples from R.O.D the TV: In the first episode, a nameless villain tries to take out Nenene with a bomb. He gives a little speech and gets beaten up by the Paper Sisters. Nenene waves goodbye and boards her plane back to Japan. Cue credits? Nope, turns out the bomber's brother is waiting for her on the plane. Later in the series, the sisters are sent back home to Hong Kong and what follows is a sweet episode about Anita saying goodbye to her friends at school, and Hisa trying to work up the nerve to express her feelings to Anita. The girls have their positive moment, and just when you think it's over, Lee strolls in, reveals that he actually works for Dokusensha, and kidnaps Nenene with a group of armed guards.
Happens in many Magical Girl series, but notably in Sailor Moon S. The Dragon is cornered, Sailor Moon is powering up her attack, it's even playing the Moon Spiral Heart Attack stock footage — but it's way too early in the episode for it, the stock footage is intercut with the Dragon's reaction, and the background music hasn't segued into Sailor Moon's theme ... you're not even supposed to think this is going to work.
Episode 23 of SoltyRei ends with Ashley and Eunomia defeated, and the city rebuilding, complete with Hard-Work Montage. Unfortunately, Solty discovers that Eirene is about to pull a Colony Drop on the city. Not good.
Happens in Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann. Simon leads an army of rebels to destroy the evil king that's forcing humanity to live underground. The mission is a success, the empire is destroyed, and everyone lives happily ever after... until it's revealed years later that the king was keeping them underground to hold off a larger enemy in space. Guess what happens next?
Used in Voltes V, in regards to the whereabouts of Professor Kentarou Go. One of his sons' and disciples' main goals is to find him. And they do. But Daddy Had a Good Reason for Abandoning You guys...
In The World God Only Knows, great job, Vulcan! Thanks to you, the cursed knife is pulled out, and Kanon is saved! Huh? Why isn't she waking up...? Apollo put herself in magical stasis to survive the curse, and we need to find your sister Mercury to get through to her? Here We Go Again!.
In Yu-Gi-Oh!:
Just when Seto Kaiba is about to save his little brother, Pegasus traps Mokuba's soul in a trading card. Parodied in Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series, when Pegasus actually says: "I'm afraid your Princess is in another castle, Kaiba-boy."
Also a common structure for individual episodes: if the hero's just played a game-winning combo, the victory music is swelling, and there's more than three minutes left in the episode, something's about to go wrong.
Comic Books 
In one Captain Marvel story, Billy Batson is forced to storm a tower in his normal form to rescue his sister. (The tower was indestructible, and the openings and passages are really small because the villains were tiny aliens). After going through hell, when he finally reaches the top... Mary was in the next tower over all along.
The Ultimates: You would think that, once the Hulk has been defeated and the team had its baptism of fire, and some view over the consequences of said battle, the series would be done. Not Quite. Remember those aliens that Cap fought in WWII? They are back... and it's still the same miniseries, not a sequel one.
Requiem Vampire Knight: In Volume 7 "Le Couvent des soeurs de sang", Requiem has sneak in to the eponymous convent to rescue his love interest Rebecca, who was taken there to join Dracula's harem of brides. He ends up finding out from the women inside that she was taken somewhere else by another vampire.
Thank you Donna Troy, Kyle Rayner, Jason Todd, and Bob the Monitor! But Ray Palmer Is In Another Universe.
Scott McCloud's Zot! featured a story dealing with a high school girl who is experiencing attraction to another girl. The second girl is known to her classmates to be a lesbian, and is tormented because of it. The first girl is trying to suppress her feelings. The story ends with the second girl passing the first in the hallway, and trying to be friendly. The first girl ignores her, looks very sad, and then the letters page appears, which traditionally is printed at the end of a comic. But after the letters page, the first girl calls back to the second girl, and a later issue shows them to have started a happy relationship. (In the collected edition, the letters page was replaced with commentary by McCloud, so it still works.)
Fan Works 
The final line of dialogue of Quarter-Life: Halfway To Destruction.
Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney Case 5: Turnabout Substitution: So, you've proven Judge Chambers innocent of the murder against Robert Erlenmeyer, even proving Erlenmeyer was never killed to begin with. And in one day, too! Good job! But wait! Shortly afterwards, you get a new defense request, and this time someone really is dead: Judge Chambers. And the defendant is Robert Erlenmeyer, too. Good luck with that.
Examples from the Calvinverse:
Chapter 19 of Retro Chill has this. The antagonists have all been trapped in frozen time forever, and the heroes have all gone home. Of course, one of the other villains had been left there to conquer the Earth, and the 20th and final chapter deals exclusively with this.
Explicitly pointed out by the narrator in The Pez Dispenser and the Reign of Terror:
"Can I just say…if you thought that this story was nearly over…it's barely even begun."
In the Pony POV Series this happens in Dark World: the heroes manage to redeem themselves, storm Discord's palace, defeat or purify all his minions, defeat The Dragon, and finally challenge him...only to discover that the same situation has played out over and over again for Discord in a "Groundhog Day" Loop for several hundred million years. This means they still have to defeat the actual villain who reduced Discord to a tortured Puppet King, Twilight's potential future self Nightmare Eclipse, before she can delete the timeline again.
The Equestrian Wind Mage: Season 2 does this twice with its Final Battle. First, when Vaati and the Mane Six show up at the Crystal Empire to finally face down Ganondorf, his armies have been broken and he's been greatly weakened by fighting the Princesses. But he realizes that in this state he'd lose, so he grabs the unconscious Princesses and flees back to occupied Canterlot, in order to regain his strength, with the heroes following in the hopes of defeating him while he's still weakened. And then, even when they do so, it just results in Demise being reborn out of his body, leading to an entirely different fight against him.
Parodied in this My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic deviantart.
Ruby and Nora: In the technically final story, Cold, Jacques Schnee's tyrannical rule over Atlas has fallen by the titular characters and the resistance, but then Salem acquires the Sword of Destruction from Vacuo and comes to Atlas with all four Relics to finally awaken Void, setting the stage for the final battle.
Film - Animated 
In Aladdin, Aladdin, in his prince guise, has won Jasmine's heart, freed the Sultan from Jafar's mind control and exposes his true nature, forcing him to run. Unfortunately, Aladdin realizes that he can't continue his charade without Genie and therefore cannot grant his freedom, harming their friendship. Even worse, Jafar learns Aladdin's secret and has Iago steal the lamp and take over the kingdom.
In The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie, SpongeBob and Patrick finally make it back from Shell City with King Neptune's crown and save Mr. Krabs from being executed, only for Plankton to plant a bucket mind-control helmet on King Neptune himself!
SpongeBob: Plankton cheated.
Film - Live-Action
Air Force One has been secured, the (surviving) hostages freed, the hijackers killed, and the evil general has been stopped from getting out of prison. Of course, they are still in the middle of hostile airspace, with enemy MiGs now closing in with the failure of the hijacking plot, and Halo Flight's F-15s still haven't had the chance to do anything really cool. Oh, and the traitor still hasn't been caught.
Aliens. Ripley rescues Newt from the Hive, they escape the planet along with Hicks and Bishop just before the fusion reactor explodes, and all seems well. Then it turns out that the Queen Alien hitched a ride.
American Dreamer has a fake out ending, where it turns out Cathy's antics under Easy Amnesia got her into trouble with drug lords.
In Austin Powers in Goldmember, Austin gets Dr. Evil arrested in the very beginning, making it clear that something will inevitably go wrong. Dr. Evil even does a musical number pointing this out ("Austin caught me in the first act/it's all backwards, what's with that"?).
Australia. The film could easily have been split in two, which might have been for the better.
In Big Game, the Pentagon quickly scrambles Navy SEAL teams to the location of the escape pod's homing beacon. Unfortunately, it fell off the pod during the crash and leads them to a farm in rural Norway instead.
Casino Royale (2006) featured a lovely ending: Le Chiffre has lost and died and James Bond gets The Chick he's been eyeing for the entire movie. They kiss and begin a romance, with Bond deciding to quit MI6. Everything is hunky-dory ... then Vesper betrays Bond, running away with the cash to pay her fiancee's ransom.
In Clash of the Titans, Perseus frees the city of Joppa from its curse fairly early in the film, and the good guys throw a big party — only for a much worse crisis to then present itself before they're even through celebrating.
Happens in Cloverfield. Twice.
Happens in The Dark Knight — it looks like Dent is being set up for a Sequel Hook, then the other third of the movie happens. Or, arguably, even earlier. Joker's in the MCU and Batman can rest easy... then MCU blows sky-high, as does Rachel Dawes.
Occurs in Dark Star, where the self-destruct has seemingly been aborted.
In Destroy All Monsters, after Godzilla and his friends barely manage to defeat King Ghidorah, they don't even have time to rest before the Kilaaks unveil their second trump card, the Fire Dragon.
In Doomsday, the protagonist has dealt with both Sol and Kane, and is on her way to the border with the MacGuffin. Sol shows up for round 2.
Dragonslayer. The villagers celebrate when Galen causes an avalanche to block the dragon Vermithrax's cave entrance, despite never seeing the dragon actually die or taking into consideration that there might be more caves leading out of its lair. All Galen did was piss it off.
In Edge of Tomorrow, William Cage's connection to the alien Hive Mind starts to give him visions of the Omega alien's location. Much of the movie is spent with him using his "Groundhog Day" Loop ability to try to find a survivable path to it. After numerous setbacks and failures, he finally reaches the location on his own only to discover that the visions were a trap, and that the Omega was never really there.
The Final Destination series do this constantly. There are even cases where it is done more than once.
The first film has the events after Alex saved Clear from being electrocuted. The movie cuts to Paris, where Alex, Clear, and Carter celebrate beating Death. A vehicle abruptly crashes on the restaurant, making it clear that Death is not giving up catching them. When Carter asks Alex who is going to die next, a neon sign swings to him from the back before it Smash to Black.
Final Destination 2 has two cases. The first is when Kimberly and Thomas see Isabella giving birth to her child, which apparently stops Death's List. Then a fire abruptly breaks out of Eugene's room, killing him and Clear. Kimberly realizes that Isabella was never meant to die in the pileup and has nothing to do with their predicament. Bludworth's "new life defeating Death" is not a literal new life coming out of someone, but someone being resuscitated after near death. She boards an ambulance and speeds into a nearby lake to drown herself before being resuscitated, which finally stops Death's List...until the very end, where a kid who was inadvertently put in Death's List gets blown to bits, hinting that Kim and Thomas might not be safe forever.
Final Destination 3: With Wendy, Kevin, and Julie saving each other from their near-deaths in the Fourth of July fair, it seems that Death's plan is derailed. The movie cuts to three months later, where they reunite while boarding a subway. Wendy suddenly remembers something crucial which puts everyone in danger. The subway crashes, killing everyone on board. Oh wait, that was just Wendy's premonition. The trio try to stop the subway before it Smash to Black and the sound of the crash is heard, leaving their fate unknown.
Final Destination 4: Nick and Lori successfully save Janet and George from being killed. Lori and Janet celebrate by watching a movie. However, Nick remembers that there is a survivor unaccounted for from the stadium collapse and tries to save him, but fails. George is then killed, leaving Nick racing to save Lori and Janet, but he fails again. Oh wait, that was his premonition. He is unable to save George, but manages to save Lori and Janet. They celebrate several months later in a restaurant. Nick suddenly comes to a realization that since having a premonition is what putting people to Death's List, this means Death is really the one behind the premonitions. A vehicle crashes through the restaurant and kills all three of them. The end.
Final Destination 5: Sam kills Peter before he is able to murder Molly, which Bludworth predicted would add Peter's lifespan to his. The movie cuts to the JFK airport, where Sam is scheduled to move to Paris to work at a restaurant, with Molly tagging along. The two watch a ruckus going on nearby, where a high schooler named Alex Browning is escorted out of the plane, followed by a few of his friends and teacher. It is Flight 180 and the year is 2000.
In Godzilla (1998), the military blows up Madison Square Garden just after Nick and the others manage to escape, destroying Godzilla's offspring and ending his species, Nick and Audrey have reconciled, triumphant music is playing and it looks like the movie is over...but then Godzilla bursts out of the ground, having survived his Disney Death from earlier and, enraged over the death of his children, pursues the group in a final Chase Scene.
The Halloween (2007) remake features the famous exchange in which Michael Myers is compared to the boogeyman. For those who watched the original, movie's over, right? Not exactly...
In The Haunting in Connecticut, after Reverend Popescu finds Jonah's remains and removes them from the house, he assures the Campbells that the house should now be safe, and drives away. As it turns out, this only makes things worse — Jonah wasn't a malevolent spirit, but was trying to protect the family from the real evil force in the house, the angry ghosts of the people Aickman desecrated with his necromancy.
Like the musical, the halfway point of Into the Woods serves as a sort of fake out "happy ending"; Cinderella and her Prince get married (as do Rapunzel and her Prince), Jack and his Mother become wealthy, the Witch regains her youth and beauty, and the Baker and his Wife finally get the child they've always wanted. Right in the middle of the royal wedding, everyone (including the narrating Baker) is interrupted by the quaking stomps of the Giantess, and it is then that the darker second half begins.
In Jack Reacher, the titular hero takes out the bad guys guarding a building where he assumes a hostage is being kept, only to find out the building is empty and the hostage is in another building close by.
Jack the Giant Slayer: Roderick is dead, the princess is saved, the beanstalk has been chopped down, stranding the giants in their land... Shame on you if you expected the movie to end at this point.
John Wick. Did you really think John would be able to bag Iosef at the nightclub? Or that it would be over once John gets his man, with an irate and not quite rationally-thinking papa wolf of a mob boss?
L.A. Confidential, Lt. Det. Edmund Exley has killed the runaway culprits of the Nite Owl massacre, he is condecorated by the Chief of Police and considered a hero... But there's something off. Bud White feels something in the resolving of the Nite Owl that is really wrong.
Letters to Juliet: Sophie's boss wonders this about her article.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, Frodo and Sam initially think their journey is over after they get the Ring to Rivendell for safekeeping at around halfway through the movie. Unfortunately, Elrond realizes that they cannot keep it there, and Frodo accepts the task of destroying it.
There is another moment around this time, after the council of Elrond, when the Fellowship is formed. The nine stand in a pretty line, Elrond pronounces "you shall be the Fellowship... of the Ring!", the theme swells and half the audience start to retrieve coats, finish off drinks and generally make ready to leave. Then find out there's another hour and a half to go. And, in some cases, hadn't realised that even then there were two more films before ring meets lava.
Also, Sam thinks his journey is over when the fellowship reaches Redhorn Mountain, which he confuses with Mount Doom. Not that it isn't a mountain of doom by itself.
In the book you would think everything is done once the Ring is destroyed, but then we have the Scouring of the Shire, which was left out of the movie for both this reason and lack of time.
Toward the end of The Lost World: Jurassic Park the main characters have escaped the raptors, they're on the helicopter, and all seems right with the world. Oh wait, we have a half hour left? Time for the T. rex to romp through the city.
Mortal Kombat: The Movie (which set up a sordid sequel). Shang Tsung is dead and Liu Kang won the tournament, preventing the forces of Outworld from invading the Earth Realm. Everyone is about to leave the island and head home when the Emperor, Shao Khan, appears and announces his plans to invade anyway. Raiden says "I don't think so," and everyone enters an Ass Kicking Pose as the credits roll.
In Poltergeist, Tangina Barrons successfully tells the malevolent ghosts to cross over, sends Diane in after Carol Anne, declares "This house is clean", and departs. The next scene feels like you should be reaching for your coat and gathering up your empty popcorn buckets; the family is happily reunited and getting ready to leave the house forever. But then all hell breaks loose, the "Beast" attacks again, the sinister clown you've been waiting all movie to go berserk finally does, coffins erupt out of a swimming pool, and the entire house implodes. THEN the movie is over.
The Ring movies lead to a (seemingly) climactic scene in which the heroine goes inside the well to find the earthly remains of the Cursed Video's creator. These scenes are filled with dread and anticipation, as the heroine is minutes away from the 7-day deadline (and so, it's a race against her own death.) When they do find the body, the movies release the tension as though the whole plot had been a "give the ghost a proper burial and give her peace." The American remake is particularly blatant about this angle. Cue the heroine returning home, having defeated the curse... only to find out her ex-husband didn't, finding the body did nothing, and the terror comes back full-force. "You weren't supposed to help her." Gee, thanks, Aiden, you could have told us that half an hour ago.
Scott Pilgrim vs. The World does this multiple times. Scott defeats the Big Bad who turns out to be Not Quite Dead and then kills Scott. Scott has an extra life, though, so he comes back and defeats the Big Bad again, who turns out to be Not Quite Dead again, but this time Scott is prepared and defeats him once and for all. Then it turns out Scott has to defeat his evil alter ego, Nega-Scott, but this "battle" takes place off-screen rather than becoming Ending Fatigue.
Se7en. You think the movie is about catching the serial killer, do you? Well, he gives himself up when there's half an hour of movie left.
In Species, the protagonists prematurely celebrate when the creature apparently dies in a car crash, but in fact she faked the whole thing.
Speed did this multiple times. First it appears that the Big Bad will be caught when they figured out who he is. It turns out it was a trap. Then later they managed to get all the passengers out of the bus safely without the villain knowing and sets a trap to capture him. But he caught on and the movie still goes on. Then the villain is finally killed. Yet there's still a couple more minutes of movie time left.
Happened in Spy Game. Robert Redford thinks he's successfully plotted to rescue Brad Pitt, starts walking out of the building, hands his tag to the security guard, jubilant music plays... and we're only an hour into the movie.
The Star Wars saga became this as of December 18th 2015....That big Ewok dance party/Pan-Galactic celebration montage and the triumphant defeat of The Empire in Return of the Jedi now feels like Tangina in Poltergeist saying "The house is clean".note 
Taking Lives, in which a police chief says, "Ah, it's over", after about 70 minutes. Naturally, it isn't.
In 12 Monkeys, James Cole finally figures out who the Army of the Twelve Monkeys are: Relatively harmless pranksters. Convinced that the Bad Future was just a figment of his imagination, he books a flight to the tropics with Kathryn. But before he can board the plane he receives another message from the future: The End of the World as We Know It is at hand and he can still stop it.
In Zardoz, the scene where Zed reveals how he learned Zardoz was actually The WiZard of Oz makes you think the movie's wrapping up when, in fact, there's still almost an hour to go.
Gamebooks
Subverted in the final book of the Sorcery! series, The Crown of Kings - it turns out you were in the right castle in the first place.
Literature 
Agent Angel does this in the second book, "Losing The Plot". Mel and her friends think the Elizabethan mission is over, but they get back to Heaven, and they can tell something is wrong. They realize they weren't finished after all, go back down in the middle of the night and have another try at their mission.
David Eddings' The Belgariad has a very bad case of this. We're repeatedly told that the fight between Garion and Torak is going to be the end of all the fighting, the war between dark and light, all of it. And then suddenly the Malloreon comes along and tells us that no, the fight was a big event, but actually there's another thing that has to happen, and then it's going to be over.
Or, to be more accurate, then it will begin as the world will finally be released from the recursive loop it's been in since 'the Prophecy' split two for one.
Used in Binary by "John Lange" (a then pen-name of Michael Crichton, not to be confused with "John Norman", a pen name used by Dr. John Frederick Lange, Jr. to write his Gor novels). The Big Bad, John Wright, plans to release nerve gas in San Diego, killing the President and a few hundred thousand bystanders. When Wright finds out that federal agent John Graves is investigating him, and that Graves is likely to stop at the obvious solution, he devises two release mechanisms for the nerve gas, one obvious, one invisible.
Agatha Christie is the queen of this trope. If there are more than twenty pages left to go, there's a twist on the way.
Discworld:
Done three times in Unseen Academicals ("You think it's over?"), as a Shout-Out to an incident at the end of a Real Life UK football match.
In The Colour of Magic, where the words "THE END" are followed immediately by another four pages of story, fooling nobody.
In Dora Wilk Series, a large chunk of the final novel is devoted to dismantling the organization of a man who's said to be holding Varg prisoner for Bruno. When Dora finally raids his compound, it turns out Varg was never among the trapped shifters and the search has to start anew.
Jim Butcher does this on the last page of Changes. And it's a doozy.
In H. P. Lovecraft's The Dunwich Horror, the Old Man Whateley prophesied a grandson of him will cry the name of his father on the mountaintop. Not many paragraphs later Wilbur Whateley screams the name of Yog-Sothoth on the top of the mountain... but the story still has six chapters to go. Turns out Lavinia Whateley had another son.
The Armageddon Inheritance makes good use of this. You've destroyed the enemy vanguard with a supernova, you've successfully lured the main body of their fleet into a trap and what's left is running away with their tails between their legs. Wait, what do you mean they've still got another quarter of a million ships, which just happen to be their largest and most powerful designs? But we've not even got two dozen ships left! And our flagship has engine damage!
In the third Fablehaven book it turns out that one of the artifacts has been moved. When Kendra and her allies attempt to retrieve the artifact hidden in the Lost Mesa, it turns out that Patton Burgess, a previous Fablehaven caretaker, had long ago moved the artifact to a new location in Fablehave for safekeeping... shame that three people had already died getting in before they found that out.
In John Fowles's The French Lieutenant's Woman there are not two but three endings, the first of which comes about halfway through the book.
Halfway to the Grave, the first Night Huntress book, is drawing to a conclusion when 30 pages from the end a new plot twist develops for a Cliffhanger / Downer Ending.
Harry Potter:
In Prisoner of Azkaban, Harry and friends capture Peter Pettigrew, the traitor who caused the death of Harry's parents, and seem set to hand him over to the authorities and clear Sirius' name. Then Pettigrew escapes, Sirius is forced to go on the run and Harry realises a prophecy he heard means Pettigrew is going to bring back Voldemort...
In Half-Blood Prince, Harry and Dumbledore risk life and limb, and give Draco the opportunity to invade the school, to get their hands on one of Voldemort's horcruxes. Dumbledore dies, Snape betrays them all, Neville is seriously hurt, and Bill is permanently scarred. And then the Horcrux turns out to be a fake; the real one was stolen years ago. Sorry Harry, but your Horcrux is in another castle.
In Deathly Hallows, when they go to Godric's Hollow because they think Gryffindor's sword is there, they end up being ambushed by Nagini disguised as Bathilda Bagshot, and as it eventually turns out, the sword was never there after all — Snape had it all along.
At the start of the H.I.V.E. Series, we're under the impression that the first major villain, Overlord, is dead. In book three, we find out he was never actually dead, but Otto and H.I.V.E.mind kill him, only for him to return two books later. He apparently is defeated again in book five by Laura, but then he returns in book six, when he is finally killed. We think.
In the Hollow Kingdom Trilogy, Kate sacrifices herself to the goblin King, Marak, and becomes his wife in order to save her sister, Emily. Sad ending, right? Nope. The story then skips ahead more than a year for the last few chapters and introduces a new sorcerer villain who is out to enslave the goblins.
The Soviet fleet carrying out The Hunt for Red October has withdrawn after the eponymous sub's apparent scuttling and the defectors seem home free about 80% into the book. Cue one lingering Soviet attack sub and its attempt to take the October down.
In the first Kate Daniels novel, Kate finds the bad guy right where they were supposed to be, foils the evil plot and the evil back up plot, and even manages to go on a semi-successful date. Only something keeps nagging her — catching the bad guy was too easy and there are too many loose ends. None of the other characters believe her, but the reader does because we're only 75% through the book. And sure enough, the next chapter has another body turn up.
Every Lensman book that stars Kimball Kinnison (Galactic Patrol, Grey Lensman, Second Stage Lensmen, and possibly Children of the Lens) end with him and the rest of Civilization thinking that they've finally for real this time finished off the Boskonian empire.
There's a fairly nasty use of this in Tad Williams' epic fantasy series Memory, Sorrow and Thorn. Near the end, as the heroes are fighting their way into Green Angel Tower for the final confrontation with the Storm King, they encounter Evil Sorcerer Pryrates finishing off the last of the heroic army's decoy soldiers. Miriamele catches him by surprise and apparently kills him with a Norn arrow. Of course, it's not that easy, as he proceeds to get up a moment later, complete with Evil Gloating.
Near the end of Mr. Wrong, Mr. Wrong feels happy that Mr. Right made him smart. He lived happily, and right, ever after, right? WRONG. Mr. Right and Mr. Wrong both became the opposite of each other.
Done superbly in Laurens Van Der Post's "A Story Like the Wind." It initially seems like a story about a French boy growing up in Africa, coming of age, dealing with the death of his father, and falling in love. The book winds down with most of the plotlines reasonably tied up... then in the last eleven pages, revolutionaries show up and kill almost everyone. Then you realize that the entire first book was there to convince the reader that Francois really is awesome enough to pull off all the crazy stuff he does in the second book, beginning with him sneaking past enemy lines back to his house and blowing it up.
In Warrior Cats: Omen of the Stars book The Fourth Apprentice, the heroes are about to have their confrontation with the beavers, but there is still a quarter of the book left. Cue the heroes being on the receiving end of a Curb-Stomp Battle and having to find a different way to defeat the beavers.
Also in Warrior Cats, during the Graystripe's Adventure spinoff, the plot was about getting home to the Clans. At the end of Warrior's Refuge, Graystripe and Millie finally manage to reach Graystripe's forest, but as everyone who was following the series knows, the forest was destroyed and the Clans left to find a new home. This led to the events of the final book in the spinoff, Warrior's Return.
By the end of Part 3 of The Wild Ones, Kit has successfully retrieved the Bone of Contention. Ankle Snap City can now be saved, Titus and the Flealess will back off, and then — NOPE. Turns out Basil betrayed the Wild Ones, and he immediately devours the bone and slithers away.
In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the story should end once the Wizard has been exposed, all the companions have what they were looking for, and he can take Dorothy home, right? However, when the Wizard leaves, there's still another third of the book where Dorothy has to get help by asking Glinda, the Witch of the South, and has more adventures on the way to finding her.
Live-Action TV
24 does this so frequently that it can be considered a mainstay of the series. Any time the good guys raid a location in which they suspect the Big Bad is hiding, you only have to check the episode number to know how the scene will end. If they do capture him, either he'll escape, The Man Behind the Man will reveal himself, or some other terrorist will come forward with some new plot.
The sixth season plays right into this by having Jack stop the terrorists seven hours early. The plot then changes to focus on the Chinese holding Jack's assumed dead girlfriend hostage.
After spending twelve hours running around L.A. as a glorified errand boy, Jack kills Big Bad Ira Gaines in only the thirteenth episode of the first season. However, CTU soon learns about a heretofore-unmentioned second assassin who has flown in to kill Senator Palmer.
Midway through Season 4, Jack and Paul Raines hole up in a sporting goods store and defeat a group of military commandoes. This is accomplished with twenty minutes left in the episode, leading people to suspect something's up. Then, the guy who hired the commandoes (who wasn't quite dead) shoots a supporting character, and the focus turns to saving one of two critically-injured people in CTU's medical wing.
Season 7 did it again in Episode 10... the master list of every government official on Dubaku's payroll has been found and safely delivered to the FBI. Of course, The Mole tries to crash the system and erase the file...only for Chloe to get it back. Since we hadn't yet hit the halfway point of the season, there has to be more...and there is, as the previews have a very confusing montage of people running, another terrorist attack and President Taylor almost(?) getting killed. Sorry, Jack, but it's only six p.m... what did you expect?
Most of the season finales fall under this:
In the final episode of Season 1, Jack kills Andre and Victor Drazen before the episode is half over, leading people to think that he's solved the main plotline. He gets to talk to his daughter, and promises that everything's alright...then, when he's driving back to his office, he gets the surveillance footage for Jamey Farrell's holding cell when she died earlier in the day, and realizes that Nina is the mole.
Jack kills Peter Kingsley at the end of Season 2 (and the main plot regarding falsified audio recordings is solved)… but there's still twenty minutes left in the show, which means several cliffhangers are set up.
The first ten minutes of the Season 4 finale are spent with Jack successfully stopping the terrorists and destroying the nuclear missile headed towards Los Angeles. Except there's still half-an-hour left in the show, which is spent detailing Jack faking his own death and going on the run.
President Logan is arrested in the Season 5 finale! And Jack even gets to make a phone call to Kim, who he hasn't talked to in...wait, why are there fifteen minutes left in this episode?
The end of "Phase One" of Alias. The Alliance has been destroyed, Sydney and Vaughn have kissed... then Francine gets offed with a headshot by someone who's been genetically altered to look like her.
In The Amazing Race, this is used on the contestants themselves in Seasons 7, 8, 9, and 14. The teams get a clue telling them to go to mat and find Phil, only to have him tell them that the leg is not over, and hand them their next clue.
Happened on quite a number of occasions on American Gothic (1995). The two most memorable would have to be "Resurrector", when after a morality tale of a radio talk-show host, his seemingly murdered wife, and Buck in one of his most despicable acts of Magnificent Bastardry, the interspersed attempts of Caleb to bring Merlyn's spirit back to him results in decidedly mixed results; and "The Buck Stops Here", where after the sheriff is killed and Caleb becomes a regular little Damien, nearly killing Gail and bringing the whole town, even Selena, under his thrall, we are treated to the last shot of Buck's eyes opening in his grave.
Babylon 5 ends the major conflict that drove the show (the Shadow war) just six episodes into Season 4. The remainder of Season 4 was mostly about resolving the secondary conflict of the show (President Clark's regime on Earth), and the entirety of Season 5 consisted mainly of tying up loose ends.
The story had originally been planned with a five-season arc (though the Shadow war would have, even in the original plan, been wrapped up during Season 4). Then, at the beginning of writing Season 4, the creators were told that they were not going to get a fifth season, so they set about compressing the original plotline so they could wrap almost everything up by the end of Season 4 (with the exception of the Centauri Prime arc, which would've been resolved in the canon novels). Then they discovered they were getting a fifth season after all on a different network, but by that time it was too late to rewrite. As a result, what would've been most of the first half of Season 5 is compressed into 3 episodes at the end of Season 4, and the arc with Byron's telepaths was stretched out over the broadcast fifth season's first half in order to fill the gaps.
It's also another remnant of the parallels between B5 and The Lord of the Rings — there's the entire "Scouring of the Shire" part after the Ring is destroyed, and there are quite a few similarities between that storyline and the rest of Season 4.
"Lay Down Your Burdens", the second season finale of Battlestar Galactica. At the 55-minute mark everything seems returned to the status quo, even if Roslin had a rig an election for it. Then Gaeta uncovers the fraud, and the extended-length episode runs for another 30 minutes setting up the first story arc of Season 3.
Played straight with freaking Revelations. They find Earth, huzzah! But there's still half a season left, and all is not joyous as it seems.
The cliffhanger version of this trope happens in "Kobol's Last Gleaming". Boomer discovers beyond all doubt that she's a Cylon, but blows up the basestar as ordered. It appears next season will be about how Boomer copes with this newfound knowledge. Instead her Cylon side forces the issue by shooting Adama twice in the chest.
The title character of Castle, being a Genre Savvy mystery writer, seems to be very good at spotting these moments.
He keeps digging in the pilot after the seemingly obvious suspect has been arrested because his writer's sensibilities are offended by the killer's identity being 'too easy' ("The reader would never buy it!"), and he's often quick to point out when he thinks a likely suspect is a Red Herring.
Done extremely effectively in one episode when, after the killer commits suicide, Castle is shown going over crime scene photos with about 5 minutes left in the episode, only to deduce that the body they found was Not Left Handed, the real killer faked his death, and Beckett's life is still in danger. Very effective if you didn't realize that this episode was the first half of a two-parter.
This happens so often in Chuck that it's almost become part of the usual plot formula.
The second season finale is particularly bad. The bad guy's been defeated, the wedding was ruined, the wedding was saved, everything's set up for the next season! And there's still another ten minutes to go.
CSI: NY: "Hung Out To Dry", the first ep of the multi-season Shane Casey storyline. The ep's over and he's arrested, everything's tied up. Whoops, he just escaped from custody...
Doctor Who:
"The Daleks": At the end of Episode 4, the Doctor and his friends have escaped from the Dalek city and saved the Thals from the Daleks' ambush. They're all set to get back in the TARDIS and continue their travels... until Ian remembers the Daleks took a vital TARDIS component from him, meaning they're stuck on the planet. Cue perilous trek back into the Dalek City... (Note that this was only Doctor Who's second story and the first was four episodes long.)
A similar example at the end of Episode 5 of "Marco Polo": The travellers have outwitted their hosts/captors and regained control of the repaired TARDIS. Then, as Susan is about to join the others inside, Tegana grabs her from behind.
At the end of Episode 6 of "The Daleks' Master Plan", the Doctor and company escape from the Daleks, having rendered their doomsday weapon useless, and go off for a fun Christmas episode involving Hollywood producers and Liverpool policemen and...hang on, the Daleks are back. Is this still the same story?
Episode 2 of "The Ark" ends with the Doctor curing the plague that had infected the Ark and departing in the TARDIS. Then they rematerialise back in the same spot, except now the statue that was meant to take 700 years to complete is finished... and has a Monoid's head.
"The Invasion of Time": The Doctor's Xanatos Speed Chess against the Vardans has paid off, and everyone's ready to celebrate, but wait... what's this? Sontarans?! Oh, Crap! Partially spoiled by the BBC announcer who called it a six-part serial from the start, confirming that things wouldn't be resolved by the end of Episode 4.
In "The Creature from the Pit", main villain Lady Adrasta is killed with about 20 minutes to go, seemingly leaving the Doctor to simply arrange a treaty between Chloris and Tythonus. Then the Tythonians decide to destroy Chloris in retribution for her actions and various minor villains get in the way of the Doctor trying to stop them.
At the end of "The Keeper of Traken", the Master has been defeated and possibly killed and the Doctor has left. Then the Master reappears, kills Tremas and gains a new body, and it turns out to be the first part of a trilogy.
The Doctor manages to kill the Borad with about 10 minutes to go of "Timelash". Then the Bandrils decide to attack Karfel anyway. Then it turns out the Borad who was killed was a clone...
"The Lazarus Experiment": Lazarus has been seemingly defeated, and his prone body is being loaded into an ambulance. But it's only the beginning of the third act, so he turns back into a monster and kills the ambulance crew.
The show also does something similar in "Utopia". Up until then the new series had only had two-part season finales. That season seemed to follow this, as the problem of the episode had been solved by the end... but a new problem shows up at the same time, as the Master comes back, leading to a Cliffhanger into the last two episodes.
The very end of "Silence in the Library"/"Forest of the Dead" two-parter. The day has been saved, including restoring CAL and bringing back Donna along with four thousand other vanished people, but River died in a Heroic Sacrifice stopping the Doctor from doing the same. The camera lingers on River's diary and sonic screwdriver as the Doctor and Donna walk sadly away, with a voiceover from River musing that travel with the Doctor always ends, and everyone dies eventually... but the Doctor will never accept that, and he dashes back onto the screen, grabs the screwdriver, and goes into a mad rush to save River with a minute left in the episode.
"A Good Man Goes to War" pulls this, as the Doctor's plan succeeds brilliantly with almost no loss of life... except the episode's only half over, the Headless Monks may still be lurking around, as they have no actual life signs to monitor, Melody is revealed to be part Time Lord, and everything generally goes to hell as the monks launch a counter attack. Then, the bad stuff begins to happen. Madame Kovarian pulls the rug out from everyone by showing she still has Melody, and the "Melody" they thought they had rescued was just a Ganger, and, oh, yeah, River Song reveals herself to be Melody, all grown up.
Every season of Farscape ends on one of these, with the cliffhanger usually resolved in the first episode of the next season. Season 4's finale was especially flagrant, as it teased the viewer with the prospect of an actual happy ending in the Farscape universe before shattering that pipe dream.
Friends: In the series finale Ross and Phoebe rush to JFK airport to try and stop Rachel from going to Paris. They hurriedly buy tickets to get through security but Ross can't find Rachel's flight on the departure board. He phones Monica to check the flight number, which he has correct, only for Monica to reveal that Rachel's at Newark airport...and a cut reveals she's already boarding her plane.
Game of Thrones: As Littlefinger tells Sansa in "Valar Morghulis", Joffrey's new compromise with Margaery does not mean she's to be set free nor does make her safe from Joffrey if he still wants to take her while married to another woman.
Multiple episodes of House seemingly end with House and his cronies having cured the patient du jour, only for them to develop a crazy (and often, violently disgusting) new symptom, deepening the mystery. One episode did the opposite; they let their patient die, but then, just as they start the autopsy...
One episode of Joan of Arcadia has Joan and her friend Grace resolve their differences and then sit on the porch while the camera pulls away, a song plays, and the screen fades out. There was still twenty minutes left.
In order to save The Multiverse, Kamen Rider Decade was tasked with the mission of going over to 9 worlds of the Heisei Riders and helping the Riders there. Once he's finished with all 9 worlds, Decade and crew seemingly return to their home dimension. However, Decade soon learns that it's not over; not by a long shot. The dimension they returned to was not their home. Decade's Quest for Identity, which was his ulterior motive in this mission, still draws blank. There's Dai-Shocker waiting in the shadows for their Great Leader to return so that they can start their conquest. Finally, The Multiverse is still on the brink of destruction.
This happens again in Double. The duo finally defeat Ryubee Sonozaki and it seems that everything is coming to a close. Cut to Kazu carrying Wakana's body. The kicker? Shotaro even knows it's not the end due to them not finding Wakana's body.
Nearly every episode of Law & Order is like this; if they don't have the wrong suspect in the beginning, then the case is quickly wrapped up only for something leading to the investigation of a more horrific or serious crime to appear, such as an episode where a simple open-shut case of a peeping tom pedophile reveals that one of his victims was also the victim of parental child abuse.
One episode of starts with the detectives investigating the robbery of a safe deposit box vault and the murder of a guard. This case is solved quickly, but amongst the loot recovered from the thieves is a gun used in a 30 year old murder that had been in one of the boxes. Cue segue into a new investigation.
There was also the time the perp was caught and plead out by about :20, only for McCoy to decide to go after the makers of the illegally modified pistol used to commit the crime.
There was the time there was a rash of serial killings of young teenaged black boys that looked like copycat killings of a white supremacist McCoy successfully prosecuted years ago. The detectives discover the killer is a black religious fanatic who confesses to everything...and reveals he was no copycat. He was the original serial killer all along. The white supremacist was innocent. The rest of the episode focuses on the mounting legal troubles McCoy faces for this blunder. It turns out his female assistant (and lover) at the time deliberately withheld evidence that would not only have cleared the white supremacist, but also pointed to the real killer.
One of the spin-off shows, SVU, has a habit of doing this in a bizarre way. Occasionally, the investigation of a sexual crime will uncover a bizarre and extensive Government Conspiracy worthy of Fox Mulder.
One of the best examples is an episode which starts off with a murder that is resolved in the first twenty minutes — then out of nowhere it's discovered that one of the possible suspects is not the father of the boy he thinks is his son. This thread goes on for a while and it ends with his arrest for murdering his wife so that he can keep his son — but there's still twenty minutes left. Turns out while Eliot was arresting the perp, his wife went into labor *and* got in a car crash...
Leverage does this every week. Their plan is working perfectly, then somewhere between the 20 minute mark and the 40 minute mark something goes awry and they have to improvise.
Naturally, a twist-loving show like Lost does this a few times.
A notable example is the third season finale, at the end of which Jack has called a boat that appears to be coming to rescue them, the Others have been largely defeated, Ben is a captive, the Rousseaus have been reunited, and everyone is cheering and ready to leave forever. This seems like a good time to end the season and perhaps even the series (massive unanswered questions notwithstanding). But there are still 4-5 minutes left in the episode, just enough time for one final flashback revealing the episode's flashbacks have actually been flashforwards to a time when Jack and Kate have been rescued, and Jack desires to return to the island.
The Season 5 finale seems to resolve both major plotlines (the hydrogen bomb and pilgrimage to Jacob) by the end of the episode, but cuts back to 1977 for one final, short scene in which a still-living Juliet whacks the bomb until it explodes.
There are three episodes that involve a sudden final flashback to a character uninvolved with the main centricity, usually revealing a plot twist. The first is Season 2's "Dave", where a Libby flashback shows she was in the same mental ward as Hurley. The second is Season 6's "Ab Aeterno", where a flashback shows the Man in Black conversing with Jacob in 1867 about the former's attempt to kill the latter. And the third is Season 6's "Everybody Loves Hugo", where a Desmond flashsideways shows him intentionally hitting Locke with his car, then speeding off.
Ditto for Sunday night detective dramas like Midsomer Murders. If the detectives have it all neatly worked out, and there's more than twenty minutes left of the two hours, then they've missed something. (Or someone else is about to drop dead.)
This trope is abused (like so many other tropes) in the Monty Python's Flying Circus skit "Secret Service Dentists".
Two in a row in this example. In Odd Squad's famous season finale, "O is Not for Over", Agent Otto defeats Odd Todd and the other agents, including Olive, the new Ms. O, reveal themselves. Everyone congratulates Otto on doing so...before Agent Ohlm races up and accuses him of working with Odd Todd. In a flashback, Otto tells the story of How They Got Here, and thus, the conflict is resolved...until everyone realized Otto opened up all the doors in Headquarters and run to the bullpen to fight everyone released.
In the penultimate episode of Once Upon a Time Season 1, "An Apple Red as Blood", Snow White and friends successfully launched a daring rescue for Charming... only to find that her prince was in another castle.
Peep Show episodes almost invariably have a moment around the twenty-minute mark where, if the show ended there, everything would be fine. But of course It Gets Worse.
Power Rangers:
In Power Rangers Operation Overdrive, every time they thought they'd found the next jewel, it turned out to only be the next clue, which led to the next, and the next, etc. Of course, the clues were also often powerful devices on their own.
In Power Rangers Wild Force The Nexus is destroyed, Master Org's ritual has (seemingly) failed and turned him to dust, and the last 2 orgs Jendrix and Toxica declare a truce and wander off for a road trip. Then Master Org comes back and systematically destroys their animal crystals thus depraving them of their zords which tangically unmakes their morphers, so they can't morph and the Animarium comes crashing back to Earth while his vines are taking over the city and his foot soldiers are attacking the people And this is only part 1 of the two parter. Thankfully our heroes restore their powers though sheer Heroic Willpower and proceed to curbstomp Master Org by an energy blast from about 40 billion revived animal crystals in the Deus ex Machina of all endings.
Partly subverted in the original Prime Suspect. From the start the police have an obvious suspect and appear to be well on the way to solving the case. They even anticipate beating the force record. But if you thought "it can't be him", you're wrong. It was him, and at no point is there any suggestion that they had the wrong suspect. It just turned out to be a bit more difficult to prove it than they thought.
In Prison Break, it happens all the time, but the worst is the series finale when the gang are all cleared with twenty minutes to go. Michael and Sarah are walking down the beach, talking about their future, when Michael starts bleeding from the nose. The flash forward has him dead.
In the Psych episode "Tuesday the 17th", it was clear something else was up when the mystery was solved at the half hour mark. The fact that the first part was a spoof of April Fools should have been a clue for what was coming next.
You can count on this happening two or three times on any Quantum Leap episode, as Al's suggestions for how to set things right wind up having worse consequences and Sam has to change something else.
Similar to the Sherlock example, one episode of Scrubs has Turk being stuck in surgery, making him late for his wedding. His boss lets him leave early and he arrives at the church Just in Time (the priest is about to leave), only to accidentally arrive at the wrong church. Though when Turk later goes to check on a patient after the wedding, the patient is revealed to be a priest, so he and Carla are still able to get married that night. If you pay attention, you might remember Carla mentioning that they recently changed the venue for the wedding.
Sherlock: In "The Great Game", Sherlock's infamous arch-nemesis Moriarty, having seemingly left Sherlock and John unharmed following a tense showdown involving explosives and a sniper, returns at the last minute, declaring "I'm so changeable!" as additional snipers reveal themselves. At this, Sherlock aims a handgun at the previously mentioned explosives, before the shot cuts to a Black Screen of Death... Cue a year-long wait for Season 2.
The Grand Finale of The Shield sees Vic all set to go out as a Karma Houdini; instead, he is hit with a Humiliation Conga, where he ends up being an office drone. Evil Cannot Comprehend Good, indeed.
Happens from time to time in Sliders. Whew, we're home! No, we're not. It's just very similar. Dang.
Square One TV: In one Mathnet story, "The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre", the culprit, played by celebrity guest Wayne Knight, was caught on Wednesday. Naturally, there was a copycat criminal out and about.
Stargate SG-1 had a tendency to play this trope, notably in the search for the lost city of Atlantis, and the quest for the Holy Grail/Sangraal/Anti-Ori weapon. In the latter case, the team was actually presented with what they thought was the object, only to discover that it was a hologram.
Star Trek: The Next Generation: In "Aquiel," both people (Morag and Aquiel) suspected of being the coalescent organism are taken into custody — and just in time, too, as it seems Geordi was only seconds away from being absorbed. But there are still four and a half minutes left in the episode! Cut to Riker in Geordi's quarters, telling him he's had a rough couple of days and that he should get some rest, all while Geordi is petting Aquiel's dog Maura. Then Riker leaves, and Maura starts acting kind of weird...
In Teen Wolf, The Driving Question of Season 2 was "Who is the Kanima?" Mid-season, it was revealed to be Jackson's Superpowered Evil Side, and the question became "Who is the Kanima's master?"
White Collar: "Free Fall", Neal, in the belief that he had finally found his Love Interest Kate, storms into a hotel room to rescue her. She is not there.
Music
The Fake-Out Fade-Out is the music world's version of this. A famous example would be the one in "Strawberry Fields Forever" by The Beatles. Sometimes it's just a little postscript riff, like in "Wonderwall" by Oasis. Also, "Mr Slator's Parrot" by The Bonzo Dog Band...
Encores at concerts. Although audiences usually expect them (especially if a band hasn't played its biggest hit yet), bands will typically pretend the show is over at the end of the main set, maybe even thanking the audience and saying good night.
The Beatles' "Helter Skelter" also does this. Twice. Which turns into a video games example when songs containing one show up in Rock Band or Guitar Hero.
Used to superb effect in "Over The Hills And Far Away" by Led Zeppelin, as well as "Anne's Song" by Faith No More.
Rob Cantor's Satirical "Shia LaBeouf" tells the story of survival against the eponymous actors attempts to eat you. Half way through the song the narrator describes killing Shia with a stab to the kidneys. But the song isn't even half over...
The video for Tupac Shakur's "Changes", the first song released after his death, does this very impactfully. For two verses Tupac raps about social issues and the problems of the black underclass over clips from his previous videos and from rare home videos. At the end of the second verse, we see a collage of video and audio clips from Tupac's life, while in the background Tupac speaks over a fading chorus. It ends with the collage resolving into a mosaic depicting Tupac's face, a fitting memorial to his life and work... and then the third verse starts up with the words, "And still I see no changes; Can't a brother get a little peace?"
A few years before Tupac's death, Oingo Boingo recorded a song called "Change" that glides to a comfortable ending after 15 minutes, only to return for the final verse and chorus.
Subverted in one version of the children's song "Be Kind To Your Fine Feathered Friends," which cuts off — much earlier than you'd expect it to — with the words "You may think that this is the end...and it is." The other version ends "You may think that this is the end...and it is, but there is another ending. This is it."
Could also be the 'hidden tracks' on some albums as well. Jay Z did this on his album The Blueprint, with the final song 'Blueprint (Momma Loves Me)' ending, then two more full songs, 'Lyrical Exercise' and 'Girls Girls Girls Remix' playing on the same song number of the CD.
Richard Strauss's "Also sprach Zarathustra" has a fake ending somewhere about halfway through, where a thrilling double fugue culminates in the entire orchestra blasting out the opening theme in a seemingly triumphant manner, pipe organ and all. After a moment of silence, the orchestra resumes playing what it had been, only much more slowly and faintly. (The actual ending is quiet and deliberately anticlimactic.)
The Monty Python's Flying Circus song I'm So Worried has three verses that could be the last verse in succession, with the latter two being about the singer's concerns that he should have ended the song with the previous verse.
Stone Temple Pilots' Plush seems to end about 3/4 of the way through, for only about half a second, when it picks up again.
An alternate recording The Beach Boys made of "Help Me, Rhonda" has the repetition of the refrain and the end with alternating stanzas fading out then slamming in at normal range on the ensuing stanzas.
They Might Be Giants' "Everything Right is Wrong Again" halfway through has the repeated lyric, "And now the song is over now, the song is over now," but the song continues for another minute or so after that.
the Mountain Goats have a song by the name "Thank You Mario, But Our Princess Is In Another Castle!", with a bit of a Perspective Flip — it's from Toad's viewpoint.
This happens in Carpenters' "I Believe You". The first time you hear what appears to be the final verse that slows down and stops a bit, you think it's over but then, BAM! A repeat of the bridge and the final verse again, this time once more.
Professional Wrestling 
Shane McMahon pulled this on Triple H when he faced Mideon and Viscera in a handicap casket match. Triple H had put Mideon in the casket and thought he had won, but Shane, who had been assaulted by Triple H not long ago, clarified the ruling that he had to put BOTH Mideon (nearly 300lbs) and Viscera (nearly 500lbs) in the casket at the same time. Obviously, Triple H didn't stand a chance.
After Low Ki had clearly beat Xavier for the Impact Championship Wrestling Heavyweight Title, perched atop him and two ladders holding the title belt high, Xavier slipped off and the both of them crashed down, the belt landing on Xavier and the referee, in a particularly jarring instance of incompetence, declared Xavier the winner. When another referee disputed this, it led to the match being restarted.
The Black Birds were awarded the NWA Mid-South Tag Team Championships on October 14th 2005 only to then lose them to the New Bounty Hunters.
Any time Money in the Bank is cashed in right after the Champion had already won a hard-fought title match. Notable examples include Edge cashing in on John Cena after an Elimination Chamber, CM Punk cashing in on Jeff Hardy after a ladder match with Edge, and The Miz cashing in on Randy Orton after a title match with Wade Barrett. The last one is particularly notable because it happened on an episode of Raw and anyone who looked at the clock after Orton beat Barrett would have guessed that something like this would happen.
RoH's Glory by Honor VI: Night One, Chris Hero made Nigel McGuinness tap out, only to not be awarded the World Championship due to McGuinness being underneath the bottom rope at the time and then was forced to submit himself, giving Nigel another successful retention.
A double example: in 2009, CM Punk attempted to cash in on an exhausted Edge, only for Umaga to storm the ring and give Punk a No-Holds-Barred Beatdown.
At Elimination Chamber 2010, Batista pulled this on John Cena after his grueling match by simply requesting an immediate title shot from Vince McMahon.
Averted at Money in the Bank 2011 by CM Punk, who kicked Alberto Del Rio in the head and fled the arena before Del Rio could cash in his contract following Punk's hard-fought WWE championship victory over John Cena.
Often, a wrestler will win a hard-fought match, only to be assaulted from behind by another wrestler whom they weren't feuding with (yet). For example, in 2011 TNA, Velvet Sky had just handily defeated Winter, Angelina Love, Jeff Jarrett, and Karen Jarrett. She had declared that she will put these rivalries behind her and get into the Knockouts Title hunt. She starts saluting the crowd and walking to the back... only to be assaulted by ODB, who hasn't been seen in about a year. A few weeks later, Velvet beats ODB in a street fight... only to be assaulted by Jackie Moore, who hadn't been seen for about two years.
Another instance, this time involving The Nexus. After months of tormenting WWE, attacking almost every single superstar on the roster, including The Undertaker, and even getting John Cena fired for a little while, leader Wade Barrett suffers a pretty decisive defeat from Cena, leading everyone to assume the group was done. However, two weeks later, CM Punk, one of the most talented, charismatic, but also one of the most ruthless wrestlers in WWE, decided to become Nexus' new leader after being fed up with Cena's Moral Dissonance. Uh oh.
Probably one of the biggest examples of 2013 happened at SummerSlam. It was Daniel Bryan going up against then WWE Champion John Cena for the title. After a long, hard fought match, Bryan pulls off what people thought he never could when he entered the company, and defeats Cena with a new finisher to finally claim the WWE Championship. He's celebrating, Triple H is congratulating him (he was Special Ref for the match), the streamers are coming down. History has been made...then Randy Orton storms down with the Money in the Bank briefcase. The good news for Bryan at the time was that A) he still was healthy enough to at least attempt to fight off Orton and B) Orton had pretty much reminded everyone every week that he would probably cash in at SummerSlam. Orton seemed to agree and started to walk away, and thus Bryan resumed his celebration. THEN Triple H turns him around and Pedigrees him. Orton hands in the briefcase, pins Bryan, becomes the new Champion and thus a new Corporation-like faction was born.
In February and March 2019, Kofi Kingston was on a roll after replacing an injured Mustafa Ali in the Elimination Chamber match for the WWE Championship and lasting an hour in a Gauntlet match for the final entrance in that match. He was the final man eliminated in the Chamber match (won by defending champion Daniel Bryan), and then Shane McMahon names him #1 contender to the title at Fastlane. Only to be removed from the match by Vince McMahon and replaced by Mustafa Ali, while he gets promised a triple threat match, but instead gets a 2-on-1 match against Sheamus and Cesaro. And then Vince tells him on SmackDown that he'll get the match if he can win ANOTHER gauntlet match, this time against Sheamus, Cesaro, Randy Orton, Samoa Joe and Erick Rowan. Sure enough, Kofi wins the gauntlet, only to be told 30 seconds later by Vince that he must beat Bryan as well to earn his Wrestlemania match. Of course, Bryan defeats him easily.
Tabletop Games
Dungeons & Dragons, Imagine magazine #5 adventure "The Taking of Siandabhair". The Player Characters are sent on a mission to rescue Princess Siandabhair from the underwater lair of the Old Woman of the Bay. When they search the lair, they find that the Princess has been moved to the home of the Old Woman of the Lough. And once they explore that place, they discover that she's been moved to a third location, that of the Old Woman of the Mountains. After they fight their way through that area, they can finally rescue her.
Theatre
In The Fantasticks, the cast also appears to get their Happily Ever After at the end of Act 1. It doesn't work out the way everyone hoped.
This trope is the raison d'etre of the Sondheim musical Into the Woods. At the conclusion of the first act, all the subplots are resolved and every fairy tale character is literally singing Happy Ever After. After the intermission, of course, consequences of the first act unfold, and everything goes to hell.
Averted with Into The Woods Junior, a Bowdlerised version of the play for children's school and community theater productions that literally omits the entire second act.
At the end of Mamma Mia!, after what appears to be the final bow, the company reprise the title song, then Donna & The Dynamos come back on stage in ABBA-esque shiny outfits and perform "Dancing Queen" and "Waterloo" beneath disco lighting, inviting the audience to dance along.
The Merchant of Venice. Shylock has been defeated! The eponymous Merchant is saved! Mercy's quality avoids straining! Everything the audience cares about is over! Meanwhile, in Act Five...
Theme Parks
Several of Universal Studios' past and present attractions include endings that trick guests into thinking the ride is over, including Kung Fu Panda Adventure, Revenge of the Mummy, The Simpsons Ride, and Jimmy Neutron's Nicktoon Blast.
Webcomics 
The debut strip of It Sucks to Be Weegie! opens with Luigi having reached the end of a castle only to be told by a Toad, who identifies him as "skinny gay Mario", that the princess, well you know the rest. Luigi decides he doesn't really care to save a princess and just wants someone to talk to, but the Toad cruelly sends him away. Just another day in the unfair life of Luigi, the tall guy perpetually stuck in his shorter brother's shadow.
The Order of the Stick teaches us that people should not trust instructions given by a jerkass to a member of their group that they didn't get along with in the first place. It turned out that the coordinates Girard gave Soon for the location of his gate turned out to be a random spot in the middle of the world's largest desert. Because he didn't trust him. For a while, the Order of the Stick was stuck back at square ZERO because not only did they not have any idea where to go, this time they couldn't fall back on the Sapphire Guard for information.
The joke is lampshaded by the same guy in this strip: http://www.giantitp.com/comics/oots0894.html. Although THAT is later revealed to be a subversion: the cube in the strip is actually a lead-lined container for the actual gate, and Girard was Genre Savvy enough to realize that the Genre Savvy adventurers looking for the gate would be successfully turned away by a lame joke and some magic-blocking lead.
Invoked in the 2005 installment of the annually-published Platypus Comix story "Keiki's Huge Christmas Epic". While trying to help Andrea escape government officials wanting to take advantage of her wish-granting powers, Beefer asks Keiki if they'll get to resolve the story "this year". Keiki, suspecting they'll have to add a chapter the following year, simply asks, "What do you think?" Indeed, on the very next page, Andrea gets trapped, and tries to escape by wishing she and her friends were the President (sic) of the United States, creating yet another Cliffhanger.
In the Square Root of Minus Garfield strip NESField 3, Garfield goes to a castle find frozen pudding pops only to find Jon has gotten there first.
In the "To Thine Own Self" arc of General Protection Fault, the alliance between GPF, the UGA and La Résistance of the Nega-Verse manages to capture Emperor Nicholas, Duchess Ki and General Duncan, as well as freeing the captured Nick. At that moment, the aliens with whom Nicholas had been fighting a Hopeless War attack, and the heroes discover that they are unable to use the Mutex to get home or contact the people in their dimension.
Web Original 
In Doctor Who: The Movie, the Doctor and Lucy spend most of the movie arriving just too late, defeating the monster left behind in this or that timezone by the Master only to realize that he has already moved on to the next one. Since two or three of the locations are in fact castles, the Doctor even gets to say "According to my time readings, he's in another castle", thus not only playing this trope straight, but even almost verbatim!
In Grandmaster of Theft, Cassidy has successfully won the challenge to steal Undine's Tear from Narcissa. Or so it seems, it turns out it was a fake and she lied about even bringing the real one in the first place.
Western Animation
In Avatar: The Last Airbender
In "The Earth King", a couple of minutes before the end of the episode everything seems to be going well. The Earth King has granted his support for the invasion, the Evil Chancellor has been imprisoned, Sokka is about to meet his father for the first time in two years, Toph's just heard her own parents are in town and are willing to forgive her for running away, and the Kyoshi Warriors are on their way. Sokka, rather happily, announces "Everything is going to work out perfectly." Within the next minute and a half, it's revealed Dai Li agents are still taking orders from Long Feng. The "Kyoshi Warriors" are actually the Quirky Miniboss Squad in disguise, lead by Azula, and they now have the complete trust of the Earth King. Oh yeah, and the thing with Toph's parents was actually a trap set by people trying to kidnap her.
When Aang goes to the Royal Palace to fight the Fire Lord, he isn't there. When they go to the underground bunker, the Fire Lord's chamber, surprise! He still isn't there. Zuko finds and confronts him, though.
In Class of the Titans, the heroes actually defeat Chronos at least twice, but he always escapes before he can get thrown back into Tartarus.
Freakazoid! hilariously exaggerates this trope when an episode appears to be concluded in under two minutes. The show then cuts to a Warner Bros. board meeting:
Steven Spielberg: I don't get this. What is this? Dexter gets eaten, then fade out? The end? Where's Freakazoid?
Man at meeting: Well, he's not in this episode.
Steven Spielberg: Not in it? He's the star of the show. What are you thinking?
Second Man: Well, we were thinking of maybe ending the episode early today.
Woman at meeting: And showing some Animaniacs reruns.
Steven Spielberg: Oh. I like that.
Followed by the Animaniacs opening theme. Spielberg then has a change of heart and decides that the preceding segment was just a dream.
There was an episode of Garfield and Friends where Garfield cost the mailman his job. Garfield looks at the ex-mailman, who is sitting on the sidewalk and crying, and says "Gee, what a sad way to end a cartoon." and walks off. A U.S. Acres cartoon seems to start, but Garfield interrupts it and says "You didn't think I was really gonna let him stay fired, did you?" and the cartoon continues to show Garfield getting the mailman his job back.
Hey Arnold!, "Phoebe's Little Problem": The bit with Phoebe's teacher talking to her seems to have been written with this trope in mind. For a moment it seems that he's just talked her back into returning to school... until he accidentally makes a Freudian Slip and says "fart" when he meant to say "Let's make a brand new start".
The Season 2 finale of Hot Wheels Battle Force 5 has all the Big Bads defeated, the Red and Blue Sentients making peace, and the eons old interdimensional war has come to an end...then Rawkus reveals that the Ancient Ones have awakened and the battle is far from over.
Jumanji did this a lot. Anytime Judy and Pete got out of the board game with more than a few minutes left it meant one of a few things 1) Pete/Judy did something stupid/unethical and will spend the rest of the episode having to fix it 2) Something bad is going to happen.
The episode "Over the Moon" of The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack had Flapjack and Captain K'Nuckles see and nearly touch Candied Island...but since it wasn't the Grand Finale, the moon's gravitational pull grabbed them back and they were forced to watch the sugar-coated island float off into the distance. At least Flap was able to taste it...
A Mighty Mouse cartoon does this with a To Be Continued... Right Now slant. The cartoon is coming to the climax when it starts irising out and the narrator telling patrons to watch for the conclusion next week. It suddenly freezes frame as the narrator suddenly says we can't wait till next week and pleads the cartoon's conclusion go on.
My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic
The episode "Applebuck Season" has a great example. Applejack, stubbornly refusing help with the eponymous Applebuck Season, proudly shows off that's she's harvested the whole crop by herself. Only for her injured brother, Big Macintosh to point out, she hasn't even finished half. She finally collapses from exhaustion after the revelation.
Played in a more literal sense in "Twilight's Kingdom Part 2" when Lord Tirek attempts to steal magic from the three other princesses. He thinks he's all-but conquered Equestria after draining and disposing of them, until a stained glass window reveals there's a fourth princess.
An Al Brodax Popeye cartoon has Popeye and Brutus as competing farmers at a county fair. The final event is eating spinach and testing its strength. Brutus offers to shake hands with Popeye to make it fair, but he double crosses him and flings him across the field.
Brutus: (to us) You didn't think I was gonna play fair with that runt and take a chance against his spinach!
In the A Pup Named Scooby-Doo episode about Daphne's room being stolen, they (of course) manage to catch and unmask who did the crime, a security guard, and the gang citing the "And you would've gotten away with it if it wasn't for us meddling kids." line for him. Suddenly, the guard says "What makes you think I still can't get away with it?!" and the robot dog (revealed to work for the guard), that was trying to usurp Scooby with solving the mystery captures the kids and Daphne's parents, forcing Scooby to now fight the robot dog.
The Simpsons:
There's a classic Lampshade Hanging on this in the "Homer and Apu" episode as, almost exactly halfway through the episode, Homer comments that everything has wrapped up "much quicker than usual." Cut to Apu (who's been fired from the Kwik-e-Mart) lamenting that he wants his job back.
In the episode "Brawl in the Family," the plot (a social worker being assigned to teach the family how to cooperate) appears to be resolved halfway through the episode, prompting Lisa to almost break the fourth wall by suggesting that now the family's getting along so well, this may be the "end of our series...of events". Then Homer's and Ned's Vegas wives from a previous episode turn up...
In "Lisa's Sax", Homer's story of how Lisa got her saxophone turned into a story about Bart starting kindergarten, which ends early in the episode.
Homer: And that my children, is the story of Bart's first day of school.
Bart: Very nice.
Homer: Yeah.
Lisa: Yeah. Except you were supposed to be telling the story of how I got my saxophone!
Homer: (beat) D'oh!
Sonic the Hedgehog (SatAM), "The Doomsday Project", has a season-ending Cliffhanger version. You see that the main characters have defeated Robotnik, and are celebrating... and then you see that Robotnik's nephew Snively has a new mystery villain. It ended up being the final episode, so the new mystery villain remained that way. The writers said it was intended to be Naugus, however.
One SpacePOP episode leads the viewers to believe the princesses are finally going to rescue their parents only for the parents to be taken away to another dungeon, resulting in the quest having to continue.
In one episode of SpongeBob SquarePants it is King Neptune's Birthday, except he's depressed because his son Triton is not there to celebrate with him. He was locked in a cage on the Island in the Sky thousands of years ago. So SpongeBob and Patrick, feeling sorry for Triton, go off to free him and reunite him with his father, even after learning that he was he was locked away for a reason... although not as good a reason as Neptune thought at the time. It turned out, Neptune was actually depressed because of traumatic memories of having to seal away his son for showing interest in the affairs of mortals, which he himself saw as un-godlike behavior, and the 1,000 years Triton spent in that cage had left him bitter, which SpongeBob did not know until it was too late. Cue Triton causing destruction throughout Bikini Bottom as revenge against his father.
Totally Spies!, "A Spy Is Born", has a similar Cliffhanger. You see that the girls have captured a rogue filmmaker, and that he's been put on a plane... and then you see in the final scene that he's escaped and captured Alex. Cue part two of the season finale...Which comes after a truckload of episodes before that (which confused a lot a fans).
The second season finale of Transformers Animated seemed like it was going this way. Decepticons defeated, day saved, Sumdac rescued, status quo restored...and then Sari is revealed to be cybernetic. Roll credits (and bickering).
Real Life
When Napoléon Bonaparte invaded Tsarist Russia, he made it all the way to Moscow and seized the city, and expected the war to be over and the Russians to surrender. However neither the Tsar nor most of the city's population and resources were there and the Russians didn't even dream of giving up. Faced with the onset of winter and exhausted troops, Napoleon had no choice but to return to France, as continuing the war was out of the question.
ESPN College Football analyst Lee Corso's Catch Phrase is "Not so fast, my friend!" He usually says it to one of his co-hosts who has made a pick in an upcoming game he disagrees with. It is typically lampshaded with graphics or some other way to call special attention to it when he says it.
Most of religions eschatologies are like this: the Judaism is waiting for the coming of the Messiah since 4 000 years ago. Jesus appeared in the first century but eventually left, saying he would come a second time for the Judgment Day to truly establish the Kingdom of God, and thus the Christians are also waiting since the time. In 622, Muhammad told the same more or less, adding "corrections" and notably details about the Mahdi, so Muslims are also waiting for somebody. In 1844, an Iranian called "the Bab" pretended to be the Mahdi, announcing the cycle of Apocalypse as foretold by the (Islamically corrected) Scriptures. He was eventually shot for blasphemy, and his adepts funded a new religion (the Bahaism) to continue his prophetism, but anyway, the Apocalypse looks stalled since the time. The Hinduism too got a lot of gods' avatars, but is still waiting for the "Krta Yuga" (the Golden Age). Same for the Buddhism, that 27 Buddhas taught to the World before the last we know, Siddhartha Gautama, and is still waiting for the great collapse of the world to begin a new cycle (which is not exactly the definitive end, however, just from our point of view). Whichever is true, anyway, everybody is still waiting in the meanwhile.
World History is like this, notably about the coming of an everlasting peace. After World War I ended, people told it was the "war to end all wars" and the League of Nations was created to prevent this to ever happen again. Cue World War II which started two decades later, and after this one, everybody created the United Nations, swearing never, ever, ever, ever again. Then the Cold War began, yet less disastrous because the great confrontation was divided and relocated in lot of smaller wars in third countries. After the Cold War ended, and the fall of the Berlin Wall and USSR in 1989-91, Francis Fukuyama predicted that it was the end of History, and Capitalism would expand all over the World to bring prosperity and peace to everybody. After a not so peaceful decade (Yugoslavian War, The Gulf War, Rwanda), The War on Terror began...
Parallel to this is the question of economic growth and whether or not the pattern of boom and bust will ever end. Every few decades the idea that a permanent high of economic productivity has been reached will gain traction, so far none have stuck. However, people have steadily gotten vastly wealthier over time.

God-Mode Sue
"Yeah, well don't forget that the GM runs the universe."
"And I'm a sue. Therefore your point is moot, Mr. GM"
— Overheard on an IRC channel.
People like to watch fiction to live vicariously through the characters. Most people in real life have no illusions about ever being able to do the sort of things within the movies. Whether it be the story of an athlete on his way to the top, life as the president, or Stuff Blowing Up, these are stories that the average Joe won't find himself partaking in. Then there are things such as superpowers, magic, and high technology. However, even a story with fantastic (or just merely highly improbable) elements has to make it believable in order to allow Willing Suspension of Disbelief. God Mode Sue takes that Willing Suspension of Disbelief and tosses it out the window.
He or she (it's pretty evenly split... which says a ton, considering how most widely accepted Mary Sue characters are female) doesn't so much work within the plot as the plot works for them.
God Mode Sue exists purely to show up how pathetically weak the rest of the world is, and how badly they need his or her help. If there's anybody else that is even capable of standing up for themselves, they may lose their abilities for some reason when the character comes into the equation, or become completely incompetent, or both. They'll probably get captured or find something that they just can't handle. Then the God Mode Sue shows up, saves the day on his or her own at least twice as easily as they usually do when working as a team, and doesn't get his or her ass kicked at all. Then he or she stands around and wallows in their praise a bit.
God Mode Sue is so powerful because he or she often gets New Powers as the Plot Demands, and without any explanation or any of the normal limitations that a good writer will insert. In most balanced fiction, we generally know the hero's going to win, Downer Ending aside (Status Quo Is God, after all), but their abilities may fail them (or something like that) and so we watch to find out HOW they do it. God Mode Sue's powers never fail, nor is there any point where you think, "I KNOW the hero's gotta win, but how are they going to get out of this mess?" The plot and the fight is so blatantly biased towards the God Mode Sue that it becomes rather boring (and sometimes insulting).
It's worthy to note that there is a correlation between badass and this trope. A proper badass will frequently break the Willing Suspension of Disbelief, but they generally sell it through either Refuge in Audacity or just generally being convincing as something that could naturally come up with the character. However, they are still treated as normal characters by the plot and have to face potential repercussions to their actions like anybody else. God Mode Sue... doesn't.
God Mode Sue can overlap with pretty much anything, but generally doesn't overlap with Purity Sue (whose overwhelming specialness is its own superpower) or Sympathetic Sue. It can overlap with a Possession Sue if a writer wants to show what (they feel) a canon character can really do. If it overlaps with Villain Sue, then our heroes had better hope that he or she has a Heel–Face Turn coming up, or else Only the Author Can Save Them Now.
The trope name comes from term "God Mode" (or, more specifically, its use in the context of "godmoding"), which often gets used to denote when a player refuses to allow any random chance to negatively impact their character. In this case, the author is pretty much doing just that.
The Comically Invincible Hero is frequently as powerful as a God Mode Sue, but is played for comedy due to Refuge in Audacity. Compare and contrast with the Showy Invincible Hero, who dances on the line but avoids crossing it due to Rule of Cool. The Invincible Hero is the first stage of this trope. If an Infinity +1 Sword is involved, it may be a sign that transition from Invincible Hero into God Mode Sue takes place when it becomes impossible for a character to get separated from item granting him his powers or have their connection cut in any way. If that is obvious from the start, it's safe to assume character starts as a full-blown God Mode Sue. The final stage of this trope, after the Rock Bottom has fallen out from under the story, is an all-devouring Black Hole Sue. Plus viewers can make their own god mode sue via Memetic Badass.
Please do not add examples to work pages, this merely defines the term.

"Help! Help! Trapped in Title Factory!"
"Send help! I'm trapped in a bottle factory! Right next door to the fortune-cookie place!"
— Description for the Message in a Bottle, Wario Land: Shake It!
Someone is trapped, or forced to work against his will, in some kind of facility that produces publicly available goods (such as fortune cookie fortunes, or candybar wrappings). He proceeds to use them as a means of communicating with the outside world and asking for help.
In comedic versions, it's usually just a throwaway gag, and the fate of the mysterious victim isn't ever mentioned. And whether it's played for laughs or drama, it's a subtrope of Distress Call.
Compare with Quiet Cry for Help. Not to be confused with: I'm trapped here, and Trope Co. is forcing me to type up trope entries! Send help!
Anime and Manga 
Detective Conan: A writer has disappeared, though he continues to turn in manuscripts to his editors; however, Conan discovers that said manuscripts contain a coded message for help. Ultimately subverted, as the author was simply terminally ill and had faked his own kidnapping in hopes that one of his fans could solve the puzzle he'd devised before he passed away.
    Comic Books 
Warren Ellis in DC's house ads for the 2017 WildStorm relaunch:
Q. What made you come back to WildStorm?
A. I was abducted. Please help. I'm sending this message out through an advertisement in the hope that Jim Lee won't see it and therefore won't give me the hose again. I'm in a bunker under a building in Burbank. Please help me.
    Film 
Whenever French is spoken in Dude Bro Party Massacre 3, the subtitles are pleadings of help by the subtitler, who is being held against his will. This extends to the end credits, where Subtitles are credited to "HELP THIS IS NOT A JOKE".
Without a Clue: The man forced to counterfeit pound notes for Professor Moriarty prints a clue on them about his location. Ironically, Holmes and Watson completely misunderstand the clue, yet stumble on his location anyway.
    Literature 
A message in Hogfather is in a Christmas cracker and says "Help help help Ive fallen in the crakker machine I cant keep runin on this roller please get me ou-". Someone says it's the same old mottos as when they were kids.
In Goldfinger (the original novel) James Bond leaves a note on the underside of the toilet on a plane, telling of Goldfinger's plot and saying that delivery of the note to Felix Leiter of the CIA will result in a reward, hoping that the cleaning crew will find it; but doesn't know whether or not it got found & delivered, or thrown out, or found by the bad guys.
In The Tightrope Walker by Dorothy Gilman, the plot starts when the owner of a second-hand store finds a "Please help" message hidden in one of the objects in her store.
The rare "Buggre all this" edition of the Bible that Aziraphale had in Good Omens.
And bye the border of Afhter, fromme the east side even untoe the west side, a portion for Naphtali.
And bye the border of Naphtali, from the east side untoe the west side, a portion for Manaffeh.
Buggre all this for a Larke. I amme sick to mye hart of typesettinge. Master Biltonn is no Gentelmann, and Master Scagges noe more than a tighte fisted Southwarke Knobbesticke. I telle you, onne a daye laike this ennywone with half an oz. of sense should bee oute in the sunneshain, ane nott stucke here alle the liuelong daie inn thif mowldey olde By-Our-Lady workeshoppe. @*"AE@;!*
And bye the border of Ephraim, from the east fide even untoe the west fide, a portion for Reuben.
In Canned, by Alex Shearer, Fergal and Charlotte find a can containing the message "HELP", along with several cans containing some more gruesome clues.
In Help I Am Being Held Prisoner, by Donald E. Westlake, the message "HELP I AM BEING HELD PRISONER" begins to appear in various kinds of goods produced in a prison soon after compulsive practical joker Harry arrives there. With every message that appears, Harry finds himself more trapped between the rock of the warden and the hard place of his fellow convicts. Subverted: Harry wasn't sending the messages, it was the gardener who was about to be released and didn't want to leave.
According to Dave Barry, when the dome of the United States Capitol was being built nobody realized the writing on the ceiling was Italian for "Help I'm trapped up here and am starving to death".
Help! I'm a Prisoner in the Library by Eth Clifford, although it's not exactly the main focus.
In Double or Die, Fairburn plants cryptic clues (literally: he is a cryptic crossword compiler) in the letter he is allowed to send his students. If correctly interpreted, these clues reveal that is a prisoner and where he is being held.
In Help! I am a Prisoner in a Toothpaste Factory by John Antrobus, the message comes out of a tube of toothpaste.
"Ms. Found in a Chinese Fortune Cookie" by C. M. Kornbluth is Exactly What It Says on the Tin.
    Live-Action TV 
Stephen Colbert used this trope in a Colbert Report — Apocalypse Mao: Murdered by the Orient's Success.
Doctor Who: In "Kerblam!", the Doctor receives a rather overdue package from the titular Mega-Corp with "HELP ME" typed on the back of the packing slip inside. This prompts her and her companions to head off for the company's headquarters to investigate. The trope ends up being subverted, as the message didn't originate from a trapped worker, but from Kerblam!'s operating system. It had discovered one employee's plans to execute a terrorist attack by rigging thousands of packages with bombs, while nobody else in the company noticed anything amiss. Ryan, who works in a warehouse back in Sheffield, initially dismisses the message as a prank, implying that he and his co-workers used to do similar things as pranks at work.
The "...Chinese Fortune Cookie Factory" version was used on Get Smart.
One Mock the Week Scenes We'd Like to See round gave us Weird Things to See on a Road Sign to which Frankie Boyle provided us with...
Frankie: Help me, I'm trapped in a sign-making factory.
NewsRadio, Dave is reading cards from a complaint box.
Dave: "Help, I'm being held prisoner in a complaint box", which is actually kinda funny.
Invoked on Whose Line Is It Anyway? at the end of one game of "Hats":
Colin: Help me they're making me do "Hats" I wanna go home...
    Newspaper Comics 
Comes up in Peanuts during a Story Arc where Linus's mom leaves him inspirational notes in his Brown Bag Lunch: one reads "Help! I'm being held prisoner in a School Lunch factory!"
    Tabletop Games 
The flavor text on the humorous Magic: The Gathering "Gleemax" card.
    Urban Legends 
There's an urban legend of an immigrant or other forced labor using the fortune cookie as a "I'm being held prisoner at [a Chinese food preparation place]." The earliest documented one is from 1955 (listed here) but like most urban legends, it's probably been around for longer than that.
    Video Games 
Fairy Godmother Tycoon has a story part where someone finds a wig — there's a little note attached. "Please help. Kidnapped. Forced to make wigs. Rapunzel." Not to mention the tip, "Help, I'm trapped in a tip-writing factory."
World of Warcraft has a fortune card that reads: "Help! I'm being held prisoner in a fortune cookie bakery!"
You Don't Know Jack:
A Couch Gag in The Lost Gold reads: "Help! I'm being held hostage in a tagline factory!"
Played for Drama in Full Stream, where the Jack Attack prompts for "Escape The Simulation" are Cookie's cries for help after he realizes that he's been trapped Inside a Computer System by Binjpipe.
Done in Space Quest III: The Pirates of Pestulon once Roger gets a high score in "Astro Chicken". He'll find a secret message pleading for help by the Two Guys from Andromeda, the programmers of the game.
One of the pillars in Fez reads, when translated, "Please send help. Trapped in a fez factory." Though downplayed given it's written on a stone pillar and not a fez.
If playing as an Apex in Starbound and inspect a standard issue chair, the player character will note that they are mass produced in factories... and add that they once found the words "Help us" engraved in a chair frame like this. Given that the Apex are suffering under an oppressive, totalitarian regime, it's not at all played for laughs.
Animaniacs Game Pack: One of the closing animations you get after quitting the game is Wakko yelling "Help! We're trapped in a software company!"
    Web Comics 
The eye chart in the first panel of this Gunnerkrigg Court guest comic.
Has been parodied twice in xkcd. First there was the Pi Equals comic, and the second was in the Alt Text of Exploits of a Mom.
xkcd fans like variations of this too.
The Noob has A guy with PHD in Egyptology held in the Clichequest offices basement.
The trope is discussed in Schlock Mercenary, and then used as context for Bristlecone discovering that the very unfriendly and homicidal AI Tagii has a fragment of herself holed up inside Ennesby thanks to Tagii filling tac-info shared between Bristlecone and Ennesby with messages about it.
The page image is from Oglaf, where a writer has been enslaved in his own home by a muse that's a Brawn Hilda, emphasis on "Brawn".
The third panel of this Housepets! comic has a news crawl reading "trapped in editing room send help;&"
    Web Original 
CollegeHumor: In a photoshop tutorial video, a guy who has been kidnapped by North Korea to edit their publicity photographs eventually tries to use the instructional video to give his co-ordinates to any possible rescuer, only to be beaten up by the guard.
Facebook's "Fortune Cookie" app has "Help! I'm trapped in a Chinese bakery!" as one possible fortune.
The SCP Foundation's Log of Anomalous Items includes a piece of charcoal that causes anyone using it to write "Somebody help me! I'm trapped in the charcoal!" every several seconds.
    Western Animation 
Looney Tunes: The Daffy Duck short "China Jones" parodies the "being held in a Chinese bakery" one. Daffy himself ends up being held in a Chinese laundry.
The episode titles of the first part of Robot Chicken's fourth season form the message "Help me. I'm trapped in a DVD factory. They took my thumbs. Two weeks without food. Tell my mom I love her, but not in that way. Love, Maurice PS: Yes, in that way." In a twist to this trope, the second half's episodes titles make up the factory's response: "Dear Consumer, we are a humble factory. Maurice was caught unionizing our labor. President Hu forbids it! Due to constraints of time and budget, the ramblings of Maurice cannot be erased, so sorry. Please do not notify our contractors. Especially the animal Keith Crofford!"
In the direct-to-video movie Madeline: Lost in Paris, Madeline ended up in a sweatshop making lace, and she and the other girls attempted to knot lace patterns that spelled out a message for help.
In an episode of Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends, Bloo becomes a celebrity, but his agent won't let him go. So on his variety show, Bloo tap dances a Morse code message saying "Help me, Mac!" so Mac and the rest of the friends who are watching can go to the studio and save him.
Mac: Oh my gosh! He needs help! But why?
Wilt: Who knows? First I've heard of it. Before this, he did funny sketches and songs like "My Evil Producer Has Kidnapped Me and Won't Let Me Go", the "Somebody Save Me" magic show, and "A Little Help from My Imaginary Fr—" (realization) I am so stupid!
    Real Life 
Downplayed during the Middle Ages, when disgruntled scribes would insert complaints about the drudgery of their jobs in the margins of the books they hand-copied.
"The work is written, master, give me a drink. Let the right hand of the scribe be free from the oppressiveness of pain."
"Let me not be blamed for the script, for the ink is bad, and the vellum defective, and the day is dark."
"St Patrick of Armagh, deliver me from writing."
ATM dispenses cash and notes for help from man trapped inside.
A woman whose boyfriend was holding her and her three children against their will called for help through an order with the Pizza Hut app.
In 2012, a woman bought some Halloween decorations from a K-Mart store, and discovered a note that claimed that the man who packaged that product was arrested, and sent to a prison for "reeducation through labor."
It happened again in 2017 when a woman bought a purse in Walmart, and the note details how prisoners are forced to work long hours to finish a quota, those that don't get a beating, and they are served little food because most of it is eaten by the guards.
An entirely straight variation, even with a Chinese factory: In 2019 an English girl was making out Christmas cards when she discovered one with a plea for help inside, along with instructions to contact an English reporter who was previously a prisoner in the same prison. The reporter investigated and says it's real, while the Chinese government says it's fake.
My Sister, My Writer, an anime which was infamous for its frequent instances of Off-Model, has one of the staff credited as 正直困太 ("Shoujiki Komatta"). That's not a real person's name - it instead translates to "We're in serious trouble", as in the anime's own Troubled Production.

Tanks, but No Tanks
Tank Goodness somebody noticed!
Writers often play fast and loose when it comes to vehicles. They are usually Just Plane Wrong, and use artistic license when it comes to ships. This applies to armored vehicles as much as anything else, either getting details wrong or using stand-ins.
One of the most common mistakes is to treat all armored vehicles as tanks. Armored cars, self-propelled guns, armored personnel carriers and several other types of armored fighting vehicles can be and frequently are misidentified as tanks, just as every warship is a "battleship" to most civilians. In real life all of these vehicle types and more are commonly lumped together under the catch-all term "Armored Fighting Vehicles" which is usually contracted to just "armor" or, if you want to be all snooty about it, AFV (no relation). Despite the common logic of "if it looks like a tank, acts like a tank, smells like a tank, it's a tank", many AFVs that look like tanks don't fit the definition, as tanks are usually characterized by being more of a product of old warfare, therefore way more heavily armoured and generally built to take the brunt of enemy fire than their AFV cousins, which usually possess lighter armour and rely more on indirect combat. Of course, this makes tanks rather expensive to make and maintain compared to other armoured vehicles, which is why we're seeing fewer actual tanks portrayed by the media these days.
In most war films, particularly those set in the Second World War, historical tanks and armored vehicles will be replaced by either modern or more widely available contemporary vehicles that have either been painted in appropriate (or at least stereotypical) color schemes or given cosmetic makeovers to disguise their foreign or anachronistic features. The amount of effort that goes into this varies rather wildly.
There are many very good reasons for this. Firstly, most survivors are historical artifacts belonging to museums and obviously cannot be used recklessly or destroyed. Moreover, many types of antique armored vehicles are actually quite scarce, and some were quite rare in the first place - the WWII Axis were the worst offenders as they favoured shorter production runs and a far greater number of variants. Just 492 King Tiger panzers were produced, as against 47,000 M4 Sherman tanks (all variants), and many contemporary Italian or Japanese vehicles were produced in even smaller numbers. In many cases surviving examples aren't available (e.g. submerged in a Belarussian swamp) or simply don't exist due to the ravages of combat, the temptations of scrapping/salvage, and the passage of time.
Next, as the Sherman production numbers above suggest, Anglo-American filmmakers naturally took advantage of the huge glut of cheap surplus U.S. Army equipment in the immediate postwar period. If a studio has running vehicles in their prop inventory that are available for filming without much hassle, then simple convenience means they'll get used, accurate or not. These days, most armored fighting vehicles that don't meet their end on the battlefield will probably be scrapped before anyone else can get their hands on them. Tanks have never been particularly attractive on the surplus market since they are huge, heavy, fuel-guzzling lumps of steel that can easily cost more to restore and preserve than recycle.
Even contemporary vehicles in operating condition can be prohibitively hard to find and incredibly expensive to hire, transport and maintain for filming. After all, tanks tend to be just so flipping big and in part because military vehicle collectors are often understandably leery of renting their rare and often irreplaceable treasures.
Then there's the matter of Real Life politics, where vehicles you'd ideally want for realism simply can't be obtained at all since they're currently being used or held by an unfriendly power. It's easily forgotten today that prior to The Great Politics Mess-Up, getting realistic Soviet or Eastern Bloc military vehicles for filming many a Cold War thriller was darn near impossible unless you were an Eastern Bloc filmmaker. Whereas today, you can just phone the Russians and ask them nicely (and offer to pay cash up front).
Similar to its sister tropes, this one happens out of practicality more than anything else, especially if you're not Backed by the Pentagon and just don't want reality to get in the way of Tank Goodness. Just find something vaguely tank-like, add a coat of stereotypical (but historically inaccurate) panzer gray paint and a few crosses and voila! instant Tiger. And—let's be honest here—aside from a few vehicle enthusiasts and history buffs, most viewers wouldn't even notice (or care), anyway. If it has tracks and a gun, it's a tank as far as they are concerned and it doesn't violate their Willing Suspension of Disbelief. To those who know what to look for, however, it can quite jarringly break it.
For producers who care, there are a number of ways around it. One is to use surplus or 'backup tanks' from modern armies such as Russia or Spain: Most T-34 and Sherman tanks used in WWII films were not actually from the war but modernized vehicles from the immediate postwar period. Another is to take a more common modern or contemporary vehicle and give it a cosmetic makeover to give it the appearance of the correct historic vehicle; sometimes these conversions can be quite sophisticated with only a few detail differences such as turret location and suspension design that only dedicated military vehicle enthusiasts would likely notice (these folk are often called "rivet counters" in the trade and are usually considered to be very annoying and hard-to-please people). Finally, there are always models of both the real and the Computer Generated variety, which naturally come with their own sorts of problems.
Feel free to post aversions here, as they're rather rare and always a pleasure to see. NOTE: This is NOT to be confused with This game right here.
For information on what qualifies as a tank and other armored vehicles, see Armored Fighting Vehicles.
Anime 
An odd example occurs in Martian Successor Nadesico when the Mecha pilots battle alien-possessed WWII German Tiger tanks from an abandoned tank factory in Kursk, Russia.
There are NO tank factories in Kursk.
Another example occurs in 009-1: Tigers again, this time in an unspecified "eastern block" country.
In Girls und Panzer, despite the fact that the writers have obviously done their homework on tank combat, a few oddities slipped through:
All tracked vehicles are called "sensha", in keeping with the real-life German practice of calling all armored vehicles "panzer". The rough equivalent term in English is "Armored Fighting Vehicle" (AFV), but the show's dub never uses it, just calling them "tanks", possibly because AFV can refer to wheeled vehicles as well.
One of the "tanks" in Miho's squadron is actually a StuG III tank destroyer. The crew of which lampshade it by pointing out that they don't have a turret. It is also lampshaded by Miho's loader Yukari who - correctly - calls it "self-propelled artillery", while announcer dialogue in the Japanese version refers to the StuG III as the "Type 3 Assault Gun".
The Movie has a team fielding a Morser-Karl self-propelled siege mortar, which is definitely not a tank and its status as an AFV at all is highly questionable. The officiator of the match is called out on this when it appears.
    Film 
Many movies where a variant of an M1 Abrams tank makes an appearance are likely using convincingly mocked up Chieftain tanks. Especially if said movies are not Backed by the Pentagon.
The "German" tanks featured in Patton were quite obviously postwar, American-made Spanish-owned tanks, which amusingly were M48 Pattons. The American tanks were postwar M41 Walker-Bulldogs.
In The Big Red One, Italian and German armored fighting vehicles are portrayed by Israeli "Super Shermans" (much of the movie was filmed in Israel).
In The Beast of War the eponymous beast is in fact a Ti-67; a T-54/55 captured by Israel from Egypt or Syria, refitted with new armament, seats, optics et al., and pressed into Israeli service.
The German Tiger tanks in Battle of the Bulge (1965) were actually American M47 Pattons (colour-coded grey, when German tanks of this period were in dark yellow-dark brown-dark green camouflage), and the American M4 Shermans were actually M24 Chaffee light tanks (in camouflage, when American tanks of this period were olive drab). On the bright side, this did make the US tanks look appropriately smaller than the German ones, as well as using World War II era Chaffees. In reality only two Chaffees saw battle in December 1944.
The remake of the Second World War film Die Brücke used Swiss Panzer 68s as stand-ins for the M4 Shermans. While the tanks look suitably "old", they do not look like Shermans, and Shermans also didn't have multiple countermeasure pods and other, "modern" stuff attached to them. What's even more ridiculous: later in the movie, an M4 Sherman can be seen. Why the heck didn't they use it in the first place?
Saving Private Ryan had 2/3 scale mock-ups of Tiger tanks based on the chassis of Soviet T-34s and almost genuine (see below) Marder III tank destroyers (confusingly referred to as "panzers" by the Americans, but then, see Real Life below to see why they're not wrong). A 20mm flak gun deserves mention as well; often encountered during the war, never before seen in a movie. The half-tracks were mostly Czechoslovakian copies of the German Sdkf 250 built after the war and the assault guns were based on post-war British FV432 chassis. The vehicles representing Marder IIIs were modified Czechoslovakian Panzer 38(t)s (one of them a Swedish licence-built model). This was in fact the vehicle that the Marder III was based on in the first place, for bonus recursive accuracy points. While the Marders may seem tactically out-of-place (poorly-armoured tank destroyers have no business taking on infantry units in urban settings, after all), tank destroyers and artillery vehicles were occasionally deployed in the infantry support role when more conventional tanks or dedicated Sturmgeschutz armoured vehicles were not available. All said, it is reasonably justifiable, especially considering that the Heer units just behind the beaches had an absolute parking lot of old armoured vehicles and a Marder (of any type) would be one of the BETTER ones available.
Red Dawn (1984) had the mistake in-movie where one of the cast called a ZSU-23-4 "Shilka" Self-Propelled-Anti-Aircraft-Gun a tank. Granted these were typical high school kids with no formal military knowledge. The film did have rather accurate T-72 mock-ups, to the extent that (allegedly) the CIA demanded to know where the film-makers got them.
Kelly's Heroes, filmed in Yugoslavia, used Russian T-34s that had been modified to look like German Tigers (there are only 6 Tigers in existence and only one is in serviceable condition). The Tiger replicas were already available since they'd been made for an earlier government sponsored historical film The Battle of Neretva. The most obvious giveaway is the location of the turret, which is much too far forward for a real Tiger, and the suspension, which lacks the Tiger's characteristic overlapping roadwheels. The scale is also off. Considering this movie was made in the same era when it was standard practice to call M47 Pattons "Panzers" though, it was a commendable effort in at least attempting to replicate the real thing. The movie also used Yugoslav army Shermans since they still had them in reserve in 1970.
A Bridge Too Far used mock-up Panzers based on modern German Leopard tanks with what appears to be plates of cardboard painted grey with Iron Crosses on the side attached to the vehicles. Possibly also due in part to the scene being filmed on location, and anyone over the age of 40 would probably be less than pleased at seeing accurately mocked-up German tanks rolling through the streets. Allied vehicles, on the other hand, were reasonably accurate. Backed by the Pentagon, in this case the Dutch Army.
Liberation, a Soviet six-part war epic, is forced to invoke this trope due to, obviously, lack of CGI, and abundance of Onrushing Army of Tank Goodness scenes. It's more or less acceptable when T-34-85 Mid-Season Upgrade variants stand in for the earlier T-34-76s, of which very few are left. Things fly off the handle when they are supported by IS-3s, which hadn't arrived until May 1945. The German armour is a semi-decent re-dress for close-ups, but for general shots they are supplemented by the same IS-3s or post-war main battle tanks, painted grey. No amount of Backing by the Ministry of Defence can create armies of authentic vehicles that haven't survived the war.
Averted in Lord of War. Not only were the tanks in one scene all real, but they were all sold right after filming completed. The scene actually had to be rushed because the arms dealer they were borrowing the tanks from had an unexpected buyer.
The tanks used in Mars Attacks!, M41 Walker Bulldogs, were all long obsolete by the time the film was made. The Pentagon, it is claimed, refused to lend more modern equipment because of its unhappiness with the military's ineffectiveness in the film. If so, then the fact that these tanks, the M151 Mutt jeeps and the uniforms and M14 rifles used by the soldiers, evoke the feel of a 1950's B-movie was a happy accident.
Ironically despite being Backed by the Pentagon, Transformers has a tank filled with M60 Pattons which were phased out in the 90's instead of more appropriate M1 Abrams tanks. Brawl is also a fictional mock-up of an Abrams the same one used in Film/xXxStateOfTheUnion with the addition of the two missile pods and the mine pushers.
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen also runs into this in the final battle with footage being shown of M1A2 Abrams being transported on Marine hovercraft only for the NEST team being seen supported by M1A1 Abrams and M2 Bradley IF Vs (the latter of which are are used by the Army, The Marines still the M113 APC).
Transformers: The Last Knight sees the British Army attack the Decepticons at Stonehenge with American Abrams tanks as opposed to the proper British Challenger 2. (Note that once again the film was Backed by the Pentagon but not the British government.)
Famously averted in the Steven Spielberg comedy 1941 which used an accurate full-scale replica of an M3 medium tank built on the chassis of another one of the huge family of M3/M4 based vehicles. Just another reason why this movie went so spectacularly over budget.
Children of Men's famous cityfighting scene features an obsolete Chieftain tank, presumably because the film-makers couldn't get their hands on a state-of-the-art Challenger II. Though given the state of the UK, and the world in general, it's not inconceivable that a few Chieftains would be reactivated, supported by Government troops using mix of weapons and equipment, including both the L85 and the G36 rifles (the latter not actually in use by the present-day British Armed Forces).
Averted in Finnish war film Tali-Ihantala 1944. The tanks used on filming the movie were the actual individual tanks which had participated in the real life battle of 1944 and been stored in Parola Tank Museum, Finland, and restored back to working condition by volunteer enthusiasts.
The Pentagon Wars, which is a humorous retrospective on the development of the Bradley AFV (as well as all the waste, corruption and sillyness that went on in the Pentagon during it) was not Backed by the Pentagon. The actual Bradleys and their scale models and blueprints appear in numerous scenes throughout the film. The opening scenes of the film also show heat-seeking missiles and bombs being tested on a different APC entirely. It looks like a retired Soviet BTR 8-wheeler APC. While it's never really explained in-film why they're using that particular vehicle (or a mockup of it, if it is one) for target practice, we might assume it's because it is supposed to represent an enemy vehicle. Given that the "present day" scenes of the film are set in the early 90s, this would make sense. This trope is also lampshaded in one scene, when the designers point out that putting a turret on the Bradley would make it look more like a tank, which means it becomes a priority target for the enemy. And that, of course, is the last thing you'd want to happen to an infantry transport.
In the "real close, but not quite" we have the classic "starring Bogart" Sahara (1943). "Lulubelle" is an actual M3 tank, which is appropriate to the period (the Gazala battles), and several of the American training crews did end up getting into battle (on the "wrong" side of Africa). The problem is, it's a Lee (the US Army version), not a Grant (British version, the turret design's the give away). The Brits did get Lee's by Lend-Lease later, but not during those battles. And Lees in British service were all vectored to India and Burma where the Japanese had nothing to match them, and their armament and firepower made them ideal vehicles for jungle fighting.
To Hell And Back, the semi-true autobiography of Audie Murphy's WW2 service, has him jump into a burning M4 Sherman to fire its 50-caliber machine gun at German troops, in the action that earned him the Medal of Honor. He actually jumped into an M10 Tank Destroyer, although the two are very similar (The M10 Wolverine Tank Destroyer was based on the Sherman.)
The movie Stripes presents us with a scene set behind the Iron Curtain, in which a "Russian" tank menaces some of the heroes. It is clearly an M48/M60 series tank with a few visual mods tacked on.
Averted in Sam Peckinpah's Cross of Iron, which used real, Yugoslav-made, T-34s in several scenes. Although the models used would be slightly anachronistic for the 1943 the film is set in. The Yugoslav SU-85 assault guns, however, were completely correct in all contexts.
Averted in the Russian film 9th Company. Despite it's historical inaccuracies made in the name of drama, it correctly distinguishes between tanks (primarily early and mid-model T-72s that were less common than later variants when the film was made) and infantry fighting vehicles (exclusively early BMP-2s, probably due to reasons of availability).
Film Valkyrie seriously averts this trope with a mouth-watering array of scrupulously realistic Afrika Korps kit in the first ten minutes or so. Until you realise this is all very clever and realistic CGI, you watch and wonder as to where they got all the Pz III's from. As CGI gets better, is this the way forward?
Averted in 1975 USA-Czechoslovakian film Operation Daybreak also known as The Price of Freedom. Czechoslovakia built 3 Tigers specifically for this movie.
The 2012 Russian film The White Tiger was going to use a purpose-built 1:1 model of a Tiger, but it was not finished on time, so they had to use a redressed IS-2. Averted with the T-34-85's, which are all real.
A 1993 German film Stalingrad (1993) featured a scene of a battle against Soviet T-34 tanks - employing the late-war T-34/85 variant, about twelve to eighteen months too early as far as real life is concerned. Perhaps somewhat acceptable, as period-appropriate T-34/76s in running condition are rather hard to come by, and the T-34/85 had completely different - and larger - turret, so the cosmetic makeover would be impossible.
Full Metal Jacket is a minor offender - during combat in Hue City, the tanks employed are actually light tanks M41 Walker Bulldognote , not M48 Patton medium tanks used by the USMC tank battalions in the Real Life battle. On the other hand, M41 is visually quite similar to M48, and both camera angles used and editing made very difficult to actually notice the difference when casually watching the film.
The Star Wars Universe has a rather vague definition of what is a tank. On one hand vehicles like the Trade Federation Armored Assault Tank, Corporate Alliance NR-N99 Persuader-Class Droid Enforcer, Republic Saber-class TX-130 Fighter Tank and the Imperial Century Tank all would fit the bill for tanks in terms of their role even when only the AAT matches the traditional configuration of a tank.
Averted in the 1946 British film Theirs is the Glory about the actions of the British 1st Airborne Division during Operation Market Garden only 2 years earlier. Shot on the real war-ravaged Dutch locations, using many of the actual participants, it included re-enactments of the fighting that employed genuine German equipment, including a fully-functional Tiger tank, the Tiger 131, which was captured in Tunisia in 1943, and later preserved at the Tank Museum in Bovington, England. It is the only fully operational Tiger I left in the world. The film also uses several Panthers, one of which is convincingly destroyed by a paratrooper with a PIAT.
Fury averted this. While the Sherman tanks seen are, well, Shermans (M4A3E8 "Easy Eight" models to be exact, thoroughly appropriate for the last days of the war), the film crew managed to get their hands on the above-mentioned Tiger 131, making its second appearance in a movie 68 years after Theirs is the Glory.
Downfall, despite showing very accurate historical levels in uniforms and equipment, there's a very poor mock-up of a Tiger I tank in one scene (the one where Schenck heads towards the abandoned hospital), which is otherwise jarring for a film that shows its work. However, it does show accurate T-34s used by the Soviets.
War Horse falls on both sides of this. The Mk IV tank seen in the film is actually a modern-built replica, so perfectly made on the outside that it's on display at Bovington as a working representative of the machine. It's good enough that they drive it around on special occasions. On the inside, however, it's got little touches like modern safety systems, a modern engine, and curious anachronisms like an exhaust pipe for the engine so the crew inside doesn't choke on the fumes. Mini documentary here if you have a few minutes.
    Literature 
Another category of error regarding the depiction of tanks can be seen in the cover art of Major John Foley's Mailed Fist, his account of leading a British tank squadron across Europe from D-Day to war's end. Despite the tanks used by Foley and his men being very clearly identified as Churchill heavies, successive cover artists depicted Shermans, Kangaroo troop carriers, M7 Priest SPG's... in fact, anything but Churchills. It is only in the most recent imprints that this error has been amended and Churchills feature on the cover. Even then they seem to be in a suspiciously desert setting...
Ciaphas Cain: Duty Calls gives an In-Universe example when a news report claims Cain used a tank to prevent a dirigible loaded with promethium (basically the Hindenburg IN SPACE!) from being crashed into a city. In reality Cain used a Chimera, a type of infantry fighting vehicle.
In Strands of Sorrow, Faith initially mistakes anything with armor and a gun as a tank, until two NCOs that are with her set her straight on what qualifies as "tank", which the assault vehicles they were initially considering at the Blount Island facility certainly do not.
In Harry Turtledove's The Great War series, this trope would be Barrels, but No Barrels, which loses some of its flavor.
In Turbo Cowboys (think a Lighter and Softer version of Mad Max set in America and aimed at kids), there is a gang of raiders called "the Takers," who use half-tracks and guntrucks. The text still calls them tanks.
    Live Action TV 
Hogan's Heroes. The episode "One Army at a Time" used an American M7 Priest self-propelled artillery vehicle painted up in German colors to represent a generic German AFV. It was a good choice because the Priest is an obscure enough vehicle that most of the viewing public (particularly back when the show first came out) wouldn't know what it really was... The same Priest had, however, previously tried to stand in for a Tiger tank in an earlier episode called "Hold That Tiger", which wasn't such a good choice as the two look nothing alike...
Subverted in Space: Above and Beyond. In the episode "Pearly", the Marines of the 58th Reconnaissance Squadron, AKA "The Wildcards", are in danger of being overrun by enemy forces when they take shelter inside an Awesome Personnel Carrier. Only thing is, the driver of the vehicle keeps insisting that it is in fact a tank. Aside from that, by all appearances, Pearly should probably be considered an APC, since it's relatively roomy inside with space for a squad of Marines to ride around in it. This is even funnier because in this show's setting, "Tank" is a highly derogatory term used to describe In Vitro humans, genetically engineered and grown in factories to be cheap labor and soldiers for an earlier war the humans fought. Two of the Wildcards, including their commander, Lieutenant Colonel TC McQueen, are In Vitros.
One Adam-12 episode had a scene where the boys pulled over an M8 armored car only to discover that it was duly registered and thus perfectly legal to drive on the street. However, both the boys and the owner, who presumably should have known better, kept referring it as a "tank" throughout the entire scene.
The "German" halftracks in The Rat Patrol were all American halftracks in German markings.
A Challenger I showed up in Doctor Who as part of the forces who shoot down the Racnoss mothership. While such modern vehicles are rare to see in fictional media - especially science-fiction - Challengers, as main battle tanks, are not exactly optimised for anti-aircraft duties.
Somewhat justified as this was basically the equivalent of a first responder tank that got rolled out to deal with the sudden and entirely unexpected appearance of an Alien Spacecraft over downtown London. Though someone who knew their DW Lore might wonder what UNIT and Torchwood were doing while this took place...
The Walking Dead features a (surprisingly clean, all things considered - shouldn't it be covered in bits of zombie?) British Chieftain standing in for an abandoned M1 Abrams. Rick gets into the tank via a belly hatch after he crawls under it, thinking all is lost, and a real M1 doesn't HAVE a belly hatch.
Averted in the miniseries Band of Brothers. The Allied tanks were genuine M4A1 Shermans and A27 Cromwells, the armored cars were genuine M8 Greyhounds, the halftracks were genuine M5s. On the German side, they used the Czech-built, German-designed halftracks and the replica Marders and Tigers from Saving Private Ryan, along with very convincing replica Jadgpanthers and Sturmgeschutz IIIs built on British FV432 APC chassis.
The M4A1s were actually Canadian Grizzlies, a license built M4A1 - the Canadian Dry Pin (CDP) tracks give it away. American built M4A1 Shermans had rubber block tracks.
Likewise averted in the follow-on miniseries The Pacific, using a mix of CGI and four specially built replicas to represent the Japanese Type 95 Ha Go tank, real working versions of which are in short supply. One of the replicas is now on display at the National Museum of Singapore.
On 'Allo 'Allo!, Lieutenant Gruber is very proud of his "little tank". It's actually a small armoured car, an SdKfz 222, a small four-wheeled armoured car used by the Germans for recce and runabout duties.
The tank under Gary's command in Scottish comedy Gary Tank Commander, when it actually appears, is an FV433 Abbot - looks enough like a tank to satisfy a layman, but actually self-propelled artillery.
    Tabletop Games 
The box art◊ for the Axis & Allies game "Battle of the Bulge." The tanks are supposed to be King Tigers, but have elements of the M47 Pattons from the 1965 film. If one looks close, they have the Patton-type roadwheels and return rollers (the latter of which King Tigers totally lack), the same incorrect grey paint, and have M47's stereoscopic rangefinders. (The domes on the side of the turret.)
The core rulebook of Warhammer 40,000 uses the word "tank" for a subclass of vehicles. Taking a closer look at what most of the wide range of "tanks" are, it's clear that "tank" is being used to replace the words "armored fighting vehicle" (because saying "armored fighting vehicle" in casual gameplay is annoying and boring). Indeed, most of the supplementary material is a lot better, correctly applying terms like "infantry fighting vehicle".
It doesn't help that the Space Marine tanks known as Razorback and Predator, are based on the Rhino APC hull, possibly inspired by the Fire Support Vehicle variants of the M 113 A 1 APC; this is now a common way to make a tank for a wargame, and multiple manufacturers are guilty of it.
Mostly averted in BattleTech, which uses the generic "Combat Vehicle" for equipment that doesn't rely on legs for propulsion. "Tanks" are (generally) restricted to actual tanks equipped with treads, though some wheeled (like the Chevalier 8-wheeled light tank) vehicles and a variety of hovercraft are also called tanks. The Hetzer - an expy of the German Tank destroyer from World War II - is a wheeled combat vehicle in the "tank" category, though the tank's numerous failings such as having almost no armor and often arriving from the factory only partially assembled show the distinction is important. Among all chassis types, treads are the best for tanks due to them being less susceptible to poor terrain like wheels and hovercraft are, and being harder to disable.
    Video Games 
Company of Heroes has the M26 Pershing tank available to American forces in Normandy circa June 1944. Historically, it did not see action until February 1945, and then in tiny numbers for field testing. The Expansion Pack Opposing Fronts features a Bergetiger Recovery Vehicle, of which exactly one was ever used in real life. This has led to theories that it was used for something completely different.
Battlefield Play4Free has the so-called "light tanks", which are actually LAV-25 & BTR-90 APCs.
Command & Conquer is a series that has made tanks out of anything - even vehicles that are not tanks.
The first game used upgunned M2 Bradley IFVs as the Brotherhood of Nod's "Light tank". Renegade changed them into small (and quite low-profile) tanks.
In Command & Conquer: Generals, America's tanks are called "Crusader" and "Paladin", referring to the canceled XM2001 Crusader and M109A6 Paladin, both of which are self-propelled howitzers (artillery) rather than tanks. And then we have the GLA Marauder tanks, which are actually turretless assault guns, microwave "tanks" that are simply mobile active denial systems, Chinese Gatling "tanks" that are simply up-armored SPAAGs, etc.
Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 provides the Allied Prism Tank (an artillery vehicle) and Yuri's Gattling (sic) Tank (an anti-personnel and anti-air light vehicle), the latter of which precedes Generals's mistake with China's Gattling (sic) Tanks.
World of Tanks tries to avert this, naturally, and includes some tanks that never got off of the drawing board. However many, if not most of the vehicles described as "Tank Destroyers" are actually "Assault Guns" - designed for anti-fortification use and infantry support rather than fighting other AFVs. This may have to do with how neither types of combat appear in World of Tanks, being exactly what it says on the tin. However, see the TV Tropes Wiki category below; the definition of a "tank destroyer" gets really complicated, and the game reflects the opposing design philosophies of various nations.
In the Chinese tech tree, it becomes apparent that Wargaming's definition of "never got off the drawing board" really means "an engineer idly doodled it on a napkin while waiting for his coffee to be served and then threw away". Fortunately most of the more egregious examples are premium or collectors vehicles...
In Killzone the ISA have heavy armored vehicles they call tanks, but its basically a glorified IFV.
Averted by Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, which correctly differentiates tanks, APC's, IFV's, and mobile artillery.
Call of Duty has an early level where you need to take out "Flak Panzers" that are really Möbelwagens. Not an example itself due to details mentioned in the Real Life folder, but what makes it become this trope is they are all armed Flakvierling 38s when in reality only one prototype used one of these before the Germans decided on the Fla K 43.
Call of Duty: World at War features several destroyed Tiger II tanks in the level set in Stalingrad 1942 a full 2 years before the real Tiger II entered service It was not even on the drawling board in 1942. A later has the player control a what is called in-game a T-34-85 despite A. you are playing a rifleman and a Private at that and B. The Tank has a flamethrower meaning it is an OT-34-85.
Call of Duty: Black Ops III has one in the level Demon Within where The player is in the Dying Dream of Sarah Hall and gets transported to the Battle Of The Bulge and faces off against a Tiger II one point Hall refers to it as if it were a standard Tiger tank but at the same time references its nickname the King Tiger.
In Vietcong, The old French armored cars are called "tanks" for some reason. Not to mention the T-34-76s used by the NVA, when they should be using T-34-85s, and M50 Ontos tank destroyers in the second game.
In another Vietnam War game, Men of Valor, the NVA "tank" is actually a BMP APC.
In MechWarrior Living Legends, all non-hover combat vehicles are listed under "tanks", be it an actual tank like the Demolisher, an Anti-Air vehicle like the Partisan, or the 8-wheel drive Chevalier light tank. Functionally, all combat vehicles bar the handful of long-ranged Macross Missile Massacre vehicles and the Long Tom artillery piece can be used in front line combat as a tank.
The Rhino in the Grand Theft Auto franchise has always been referred to as a tank. However, its earliest designs (the ones that appeared in Grand Theft Auto III, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City) have wheels rather than tracks, making it look more like an APC.
Grand Theft Auto V has The Rhino being modeled on an actual tank, however it still falls into this trap thanks to the description from an in-game website mistaking which tank was modeled for the game. The website unmistakably describes an M1 Abrams with references to a weight of 60 tons, a 1,500hp turbine engine, a 120mm cannon and the line [[Irony"One of the few vehicles still manufactured in America"]]. The Rhino is actually modeled on the Leopard 2A4 Which despite having the 120mm cannon note  is different in every other detail in the description. The Leopard 2 uses a 1,479hp V12 Diesel engine, has a weight of 68 tons, and is made in Germany.
In the post-apocalyptic world of Metal Max, a tank just means a vehicle that has some armor slapped on it and at least one gun. In one game of the series, the first "tank" you get is a dune buggy and later in the game you can try to outbid someone for a firetruck to join your tank force.
Battlefield Vietnam had an artillery vehicle which new players tried frequently to use as a tank, giving disappointing results.
Player Unknowns Battle Grounds has an air-droppable BRDM armoured car which players are incessantly referring to as a tank, despite the fact that, unlike the real one, it doesn't even have a weapon turret, and it goes up in a fireball like any other vehicle in the game when you fire enough rifle ammo into it.
An example of in-universe misidentification in one of Medal of Honor: Allied Assault expansions, Spearhead.
After you successfully parachuted into France on the 6th of June 1944, you meet up with your British allies and are about to head off on your assigned mission. Suddenly, one of the Brits shouts "TIGER TANK!"...and then you turn around and find out it's not a Tiger Tank but is, in fact, a Panzer IV.
This was actually a common occurrence in real life, since most Allied soldiers were ignorant of the different German tank models or how common each type was, and if they saw a panzer approaching they would be quick to see it as whatever they were most afraid of, which was the Tiger. As Nick Moran points out in "Myths of American Armor", the Panzer IV has a blocky shape and long gun with large muzzle brake which look superficially similar to a Tiger at a distance, and if a guy sees that through his telescope he’s going to think "TIGER!" and start frantically reacting instead of sitting there counting the number of road wheels on it to make sure.
    Real Life 
In the Israeli Defense Force:
The Merkava is a tank and not an APC, despite its rear door, which is there to allow the tank to be evacuated or resupplied under fire. The tank does have the potential to carry troops in an emergency but the ammunition magazine has to be emptied to make room for them.
This is also true of the Merkava IV Tankbulance, which is a tank equipped to be an ambulance. Since it still retains its original armament it isn't protected by the Geneva conventions, and can therefore be engaged by the enemy. Admittedly, its thick armour and a 120mm cannon don't exactly mean it's a sitting duck...But given that the type of enemies that the IDF would fight aren't exactly mindful of the Geneva Convention, it is an example of Combat Pragmatism at its finest.
On a similar note, the Israeli Achzarit is an APC despite having started life as a T-55 tank. Confused yet?
Likewise for the Namer, which is an APC built on a Merkava chassis, making it the best-armored APC in the world yet also one of the fastest. This comes at the price of having a relatively small troop capacity of only nine despite weighing in at a massive 60 tons (five times larger than the M113, which carries eleven troops). While its name translates as "leopard", it's also an acronym (in Hebrew, of course): "Nagmash" Merkava", or "APC Merkava".
Then you get to the Pereh, an ATGM-launching tank destroyer disguised as a Magach, or an American M48 Patton. It was used to great effect in all Israeli conflicts since the 80s thanks to it looking like a regular tank, which lead the attackers to believe that they were safely out of range, and then they'd get blown up by missiles at twenty times the expected range for the tanks that the Perehs look like.
The British CVR(T) series of reconnaissance vehicles. Though if one defines "tank" as "tracked armoured vehicle with a turret-mounted gun and no space for infantry" then the Scorpion and Scimitar fit the bill, designed primarily for the reconnaissance role or not. Reconnaissance has always been the primary role of light tanks anyway.
American M551 Sheridan Armored Reconnaissance/Airborne Assault Vehicle was also a fully-tracked light armored vehicle with turret-mounted main weapon system, which could easily fit into the light tank category. As it was intended primarily as an airborne and cavalry anti-tank, fire-support and reconnaissance vehicle, it was not officially classified as a tank.
The Stryker - being an eight-wheeled gun platform - isn't too likely to get confused for a tank, but the same probably couldn't be said for the M2/M3 Bradley and Linebacker IFV/CFVs. They're armor plated, have a gun turret, tracks, but their primary function is carrying troops into battle and giving them fire support in combat. Thanks to their speed and their ability to carry and launch anti-tank missiles, they do make for a respectable threat to enemy tanks on the battlefield. Though originally it was worried that their aluminum armor would make them too vulnerable to enemy fire, even after some steel plating was added on the sides, in practice three only Bradleys have been destroyed by enemy fire and the rest have been at the hands of American M1 Abrams tanks.
The BMP line of amphibious infantry fighting vehicles and their airborne counterparts, the BMD line, often get mistaken for tanks because of the tank-like shape and size of their turrets and main guns. Western IFVs are noticeably taller and boxier than tanks to accommodate the extra people on-board. Soviet IFVs tend to have less passenger capacity, are sometimes ridiculously over-armed, and their tank-like profile was designed to make them much better amphibious vehicles than their western counterparts.
News sources, and particularly The BBC, have a tendency to mistakenly regard any armoured vehicle (especially those with tracks) as 'a tank', which can lead to confusing headlines about the Iraq conflict and so forth.
In Germany, every tracked and armored vehicle is actually and correctly refered to as a Panzer, as "Panzer" simply being German for "armour" (in Dutch, it's spelled "Pantser", which somehow manages to look less scary - especially if you're British). The Gepard Flakpanzer (Anti-Aircraft-Tank, based on Leopard 1 chassis), Marder 2A5 Schützenpanzer (ICV), Biber Brückenlegepanzer (Brigde-layer, based on Leopard 1 Chassis), Leopard 2A6 Kampfpanzer (MBT), Panzerhaubitze 2000 (Self-Propelled Howitzer). Even nontracked Vehicles like the Spürpanzer Fuchs and Spähpanzer Luchs (6x6 and 8x8 wheeled, lightly armored vehicles) are referred to as such, although not classifying as tanks at all. Correct German term for "tank" specifically would be "Panzerkampfwagen", and "Panzer" is a loose equivalent to English "AFV" (armoured fighting vehicle)Translation .
According to documentary evidence some units of the German Wehrmacht preferred to use captured US Sherman tanks as tank recovery vehicles. They may have lacked the gun power and armor protection of Panthers and Tigers but they were a lot more reliable and had a much better power to weight ratio making them better tow vehicles. There was also an instance during the Battle of the Bulge where the Germans used Panthers disguised as US M10 Tank Destroyers, creating a Real Life Tanks, But No Tanks situation. These were modeled in World Of Tanks, and despite being larger than an M10 Wolverine, their outward appearance would likely fool P-47 and Typhoon pilots. They'd be left alone by the planes, only to ambush the American tanks as they passed by.
During the victory years, the Germans selectively amassed examples of all the tank types captured from defeated enemies. The intention was eventually to house them in a Victory Museum depicting the heroic struggle of the German Army. These were temporarily stored at a tank base on the Baltic coast, but, as the war turned, this stock of captured vehicles was plundered for operational requirements. It is likely many of the Shermans put into service, as described above, came from this stock. Captured French and British tanks were rebuilt as assault guns, and vehicles used to deceive American forces in the Bulge fighting came from here.
The definition of "tank" was flexible and hadn't been formalized in the early days of armored warfare. The term "tank" itself was a deliberately-obfuscatory term used at the factories to keep their real nature a secret from enemy spies; the assembly-line workers building the new "landships"note  (which was intended to be the proper term) were told that the vehicles would be used to haul drinking water in areas without improved roads. The fake name caught on, and the rest is history. When you get right down to it, none of the early tanks—the British Mark I & IV, the French Schneider & St. Chamond, or the German A7V Sturmpanzerwagen— would be considered tanks, as they all lacked turrets and had guns with limited traverse. The first tank, recognizable as such to a current casual observer, was the French Renault FT-17 light tank, which featured a rotating turret and modern shape, but at the time these features had nothing at all to do with the military definition of a tank. There were other (rarer) "tanks" that wouldn't be accepted as "tanks": for example, the experimental A39 Tortoise heavy tank developed by the British during World War II was really an assault gun with a fixed superstructure similar to the German Jagdtiger. Americans waffled on the designation for the experimental T28, another heavy "assault gun" developed late in World War II. It was originally classified as "T95 Heavy Tank", then redesignated as "105 mm Gun Motor Carriage T95" or self-propelled gun, but later redesignated again as "T28 Super Heavy Tank".note 
Another example is the "3 Ton Tank" M1918. It was build late in WWI and based on the Renault FT-17 (the American copies of these were known as the M1917 or "6 Ton Tank"), but put on such a strict diet that it lost its turret in favor of a forward gun with limited traverse. This was to be a machine gun in all cases, while part of the FT-17's had a 37mm cannon. 15 of these "tanks" were build before the war ended. As much of what the designers skimped on was space for the crew, tankers of those days may have been pretty glad it never really entered service.
It has to be said that the Bovington tank museum in Britain appears to be more sympathetic to the needs of film and TV than most. While, understandably, it will not loan its only Tiger - the only running model left in the world - it is less stringent about other exhibits. There was a recent BBC documentary/drama which incorporated a running Cromwell tank from 1944, in exactly the correct Normandy context, which could only have come from one place. This was accompanied by other running examples of WW2 British hardware, such as Universal Carriers, all in the context of depicting and illustrating the often-overlooked British contribution to the Normandy landings. The documentary makers also had the use of a Mark IV Panzer.
As mentioned in the "Film" section, Bovington's Tiger made an appearance in David Ayer's Fury. This marked the first ever appearance of a genuine Tiger in a Second World War film, German propaganda newsreels notwithstanding.
The designation does get confusing with the Swedish Stridsvagn 103, which is also unofficially known as the S-tank even though its configuration (no turret and hull-mounted main gun) was more like an older tank destroyer or self-propelled gun. Officially it is still classified as a main battle tank. As two users from a certain forum put it:
Marcus Aurelius: ...the Swedish S-tank; the exception is made mostly because the Swedes insisted really hard that it is a tank rather than a tank destroyer or assault gun
Ilya Muromets: And now I have this image of a massive, stern-looking Swede staring down a bunch of military nerds. "It's a tank." "Uh, yes Sir. Please don't hurt us."
During the invasion of Malaya in 1942, Japanese troops reported capturing or destroying numerous British "tanks." These were in fact Bren Gun Carriers, which were small, open topped armored personnel carriers (in fact smaller than a modern-day Humvee, and used in similar roles) as the British had no real tanks on their Malaya colony.
Note that even in 1942 (and it actually went downhill from there) the Japanese armor was laughably inadequate by the standards of all other major combatants, as they never deployed any modern medium tank, much less a heavy one, until the very end of the war,note  so for them the Universal Carrier, derived from the early-30es Carden-Lloyd tankettes, might indeed seem like a full-on tank.
To further confuse the casual student of military history, the WW2 British army fielded both Tank and Armoured Brigades. 'Tank' units were semi independent formations organised to be attached to infantry divisions/corps for support while 'Armoured' units were usually part of an Armoured Division.note  While the 'tank' units normally had dedicated 'Infantry' tanks like the Churchill, some 'tank' units were equipped with exactly the same Shermans as 'Armoured' regiments leading the untrained observer to wonder what the fuss was about. Add in the confusion in the way what is called a 'Regiment' is really a battalion sized unit that is part of it's parent regiment but commanded as part of a brigade, and it is little wonder many casual military history buffs give up and research Panzer divisions instead.
On a similar note, Soviet Union (and modern Russia too) had both Rifle and Tank divisions equipped with tanks, — because both were actually combined arms units, the difference being that Rifle division has three Rifle and one Tank regiment, and the Tank division vice versa. Also, Tank divisions were usually equipped the cream of the crop, most advanced materiel like T-80, while Rifle divisions usually received cheaper mass-produced tanks like T-72 (USSR actually kept at least three independent MBT lines in production by its end). Note that both types of divisions had their own organic artillery complements (usually also regimental-sized), that nowadays tend to be self-propelled and thus equipped with the very tank-like vehicles, to further confuse the hell out of everyone.
The Italian tank destroyer B1 Centauro is sometimes described as a tank in spite of being a wheeled vehicle. Adding to the confusion, it's often called a "wheeled tank" due its high firepower and armour on par to a light tank. Terms like "wheeled tank" and "tracked armored car" have been used quite often, even in official references. For example, light armored vehicles called AMR (Automitrailleuse de Reconnaissance) were officially classed as armored cars by the French, despite being light tanks in all but designation.
Similar to the Japanese example above, the Chinese army report every tracked vehicle kill in the Korean War as a tank kill. This often led to confusion of the actual model of vehicle being destroyed: Unit 215, a T-34-85, is famous for destroying three Pershings in one day but photographs took by the crew reveal these targets as M39 carriers or turretless Chaffee/Hellcat variants.
The "Victory Museum" in North Korea that celebrates the utter destruction of the filthy capitalist hordes by Kim-Il-Sung preserves captured British Universal Carriers and American M3 halftracks - which are all designated as "captured tanks".
In New Zealand during World War II, the Minister for Public Works, Bob Semple, commissioned the construction of the Semple Tank (in fact, it was just an armored tractor). It had no blueprints, had numerous design flaws, never got beyond the prototype stage, and was laughed at by the public. However, it is remembered most as an example of the New Zealand do-it-yourself ethos.
Many WWII armies saw assault guns and tank destroyers (both forms of self-propelled gun) being pressed into service to fill the "tank" role when supplies of actual tanks ran low. This was especially true in the Italian Army where vehicles like the Semovente 74/18 assault gun proved, despite their lack of a turret, to be superior to the nation's problematic light tanks.
The Russian object 952 "Sprut-SD" is a vehicle the Russians themselves cannot decide what to think of as. Conceived as a way to give paratroopers an organic anti-tank capability, it is a honest to God light tank, according to its creator, and given that it is based on a light tank chassisnote  and mounts a classic tank turret with a full-fledged 125-mm cannon capable of firing standard Russian tank ammo, if not fo the Russians diehard insistence that it's a "self-propelled anti-tank gun". This is mainly due to a red tape, as a Main Artillery and Rocket Directorate of the Russian Defence Ministry, which was responsible to its creation, isn't authorized to produce tanks, but the self-propelled guns on the other hand…
Canada's light armored vehicles, most notably the LAV III, are very commonly referred to as tanks due to being the most frequently used armored personnel carrier. They're a hell of a piece of hardware, but a tank they ain't: they're an infantry fighting vehicle.
    Other 
The Battle of Kutno paintings by Jerzy Kossak, for example here (1939 version at top, 1943 version below). Both paintings depicts Polish light cavalry attacking Nazi tanks with lances and winning, very loosely based on a Polish cavalry unit pursuing German infantry and engaging their tank reinforcements.note  Tanks in 1943 versions somewhat resemble British Churchills and Matildas, tanks in 1939 version are purely author's imagination — or, if you squint really hard, somewhat resemble the Grote tank: an obscure, early 30es experimental Soviet design created by a visiting German engineer that went nowhere and remained in a single half-finished prototype.

Twice Shy
"Okay! What is wrong with the two of you?! Seriously! He likes you, and you like him, and just be together! Jeez, Louise! Happiness is not that difficult!"
— Lily Aldrin, How I Met Your Mother
When two characters are attracted to one another but are both so incredibly shy and awkward that neither one of them has the guts to do anything about it. In the end, all it usually takes is for someone (or something) else to give them a gentle nudge in the right direction and they'll get together.
The pair usually comprises a regular character and a Temporary Love Interest, but it can also be a Beta Couple with a Will They or Won't They? plot of their own. It may also involve some Dramatic Irony if the audience is made aware of the pair's mutual crush before they are.
Subtrope of Birds of a Feather. Compare with Belligerent Sexual Tension which also has trouble getting together, but for different reasons. May be a driving force behind Will They or Won't They?, Not to Be Confused with The First Cut Is the Deepest, a trope also described as "once bitten, twice shy."
 Anime & Manga 
Firo and Ennis in Baccano! take this Up to Eleven by engaging in Innocent Cohabitation for upwards of seventy years, despite his falling in love with her pretty much as soon as he met her. Somewhat justified since Ennis has a hard time figuring out what love, marriage, and sex even mean.
In Bakuman。, Mashiro's uncle and the woman of his dreams, who turns out to be Azuki's mom, were completely crippled by this. It's likely that Mashiro and Azuki would have fared even worse if Takagi hadn't dragged Mashiro bodily into speaking with her and agreeing to draw manga.
Captain Tsubasa:
The captain of the Furano team, Matsuyama, has this going with his assistant Yoshiko, At first, it seems that he's Oblivious to Love regarding Yoshiko's feelings for him, but some Ship Tease-laden flashbacks state that he likes her too. The fact that she has to leave for the USA due to her father's work doesn't help.
To a degree, Sanae and Tsubasa fell into this trope during their Relationship Upgrade manga chapter. She's been very smitten with him since childhood, but he seems to have only very recently caught up thanks to Kumi's Anguished Declaration of Love to him and since he's going to live abroad, he isn't sure of how to tell her.
Ran and Shinichi of Detective Conan. Every single time Shinichi turns back, they just keep beating around the bush instead of telling each other how they feel. For 16 years (not in story). Straight. Shinichi did end up giving Ran an indirect confession in the London Arc, though.
Kiri and Elraine from Double Arts. She's too shy and thinks he's clueless about her feelings, and he's convinced that the boost in sexual tension caused by confessing to her would make life trapped together too awkward.
Alzack and Bisca in Fairy Tail, until the timeskip.
In Full Metal Panic!, Sōsuke and Kaname fit this trope to the "T" — especially later on. Kaname has problems taking on the aggressive role of romantically pursuing Sōsuke (as she's shown to constantly be waiting for Sōsuke to take the initiative and is constantly disappointed when she finds out she misunderstood his actions as being romantic advances). And Sōsuke... has huge issues with romantic intimacy. He's shown to become very nervous when confronted with anything "inappropriate" and too sexual and has a tendency to clam up or run away. The most he appears to be able to muster with Kaname is to shyly hold her hand, which results in some highly frustrating Will They or Won't They?.
Examine the freak-out he had in the beautician shop (he didn't at all like the idea of someone holding blades near him.) Then examine how, with Kaname holding a pair of scissors near his head, he is somehow relaxed enough that he falls asleep while she's trimming his hair. He's not even that relaxed around Tessa or Kalinin. They Will. And They Did.
Gamers! has the main protagonist Keita Amano and the first introduced potential love interest Karen Tendō as an example of this. The tension between them is exacerbated by them having different degrees of Oblivious to Love and the fact that this story runs on comedic misunderstandings. On Keita’s side, he is definitely aware of his own crush on Karen, but somehow ignorant of the fact that she’s a Stalker with a Crush on him. At best, he thinks she’s only getting close to him because her real target is his friend Uehara, and at worst, he thinks she hates him for humiliating her by publicly rejecting her offer to join the Game Club. On Karen’s side, she doesn’t even realize that her obsession with him is far from platonic, or that Amano’s awkwardness around her is because he likes her back. At best, she worries he’s more romantically interested in other girls (despite not knowing why this prospect bothers her) and at worst thinks he hates her for bothering him about gaming, which they have similar passion for but different opinions on. This awkward tension continues to persist even after he accidentally asks her out and she immediately accepts, leading to their Relationship Upgrade.
Feldt and Setsuna in Gundam 00: A Wakening of the Trailblazer show signs of this. Feldt's feelings for him are so obvious Everyone Can See It but Setsuna has his own intimacy issues, not to mention his recent transformation into an Innovator. The farthest they get is a hug when Setsuna wakes up from his ELS Mind Rape-induced coma... at least that's what we see; exactly what happened between the hug and Setsuna calling the bridge that he's taking the 00 Quan[T] (with a teary Feldt following closely) is left up for interpretation.\\\ However, Setsuna does directly address her and only her when he's about to sortie. After this, Setsuna ends up leaving to the ELS homeworld, and the end of the movie fast forwards to many years later, leaving a giant gap in which the only details we know of being another war involving an "old human faction". Whatever may have happened between him ( now likely immortal due to fusing with the ELS ) and Feldt (who is probably ancient unless she ended up assimilating like other humans are shown to have done in the future) will likely never be known.
Ippo Makunouchi and Kumi Mashiba from Hajime no Ippo. For reference, Kumi was first introduced in chapter 36, the manga is already past its 900th chapter.
Suiren and Kawasumi from Hibi Chouchou. She's shy and with bad social skills due to years of isolation, he's extremely awkward around girls.
Junpei Manaka and Aya Toujo in Strawberry 100%. Actually, this trope is even the main reason why this series DOESN'T end with a First Girl Wins scenario.
I"s would probably be about half the length if it weren't for this trope.
Inverted in Kaguya-sama: Love Is War. Both Kaguya and Shirogane are aware of each other's love and want nothing more than to provoke a Love Confession to be the dominant one in the relationship (in a non-sexual way). However, they are entirely unaware of — and can't admit — their own feelings.
In Kase-san, both girls get plenty of hints from the other that they're interested, but both are way too awkward and nervous to do anything about it for a full year in-universe time.
Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple:
Kind of exists between Kenichi and Miu. It's slightly subverted in that they're very good friends, but Kenichi is too nervous to take it to a romantic level, and Miu is incredibly jealous of any other girls who hang around with Kenichi, but she doesn't take the initiative either. Also a case of Everyone Can See It, as all of the masters are totally aware of it, and are watching to see what will happen.
Later on in the series, this trope is subverted in a unique way. Both Kenichi and Miu acknowledge their feelings for each other (well before the end of the series at this point by a 100+ chapters mind you) but they decide not to date until Kenichi has enough power/skill to protect Miu. In the last page of the entire series, a small picture is shown on the side of the page that depicts a small girl is shown between two unknown figures, implying that not only Miu and Kenichi started dating, but eventually married.
Sawako and Kazehaya of Kimi ni Todoke. She's shy, innocent and unassuming to a fault, he's a truly genuine Nice Guy who doesn't want to push it. Without Yano, Chizu and Ryu nudging them, they would probably both graduate before they got around to doing so much as hold hands.
Lovely Complex has Chiharu and Suzuki who are both so freaked out by talking to the opposite sex that they can do nothing but stand quietly and stare at each other until their friends push them into admitting their feelings for each other.
In My Hero Academia, protagonist Izuku Midoriya ends up in this sort of situation with Ochaco Uraraka, who has a very blatant crush on him. She's his closest female friend and it's strongly implied he does like her back, but they tend to get extremely flustered when too close and/or alone with each other.
My Monster Secret: For the first half of the manga, Youko and Asahi are mutually interested in each other (a fact blindingly obvious to everyone) but it takes a good amount of encouragement from the rest of the cast for them to actually get together. Although to be fair, both of them did have reasons to drag their feet a little: Asahi decided to hold off because he's keeping a major secret on her behalf and feels like asking her out on a date right after finding out would feel a little too much like blackmail, and Youko believes, not entirely erroneously, that Asahi has a crush on someone else (he did at one point, but got shot down and moved on).
Naruto has been unable to comprehend both Hinata's feelings and his own as romantic, even after she spat it out to him and then they held hands in the War Arc. In The Last: Naruto the Movie, when he finally realizes both her feelings and the true nature of his own for her, he is incredibly unsubtle with his feelings, effectively acting no differently than Hinata, who is completely unaware that he's in love with her — the irony of which is not lost on anyone.
Neon Genesis Evangelion has Shinji and Asuka. Though the precise nature of their feelings is up to debate, they both tend to hide from showing their feelings. Thanks also to similar pasts and trauma, they have both developed defense mechanisms to avoid getting close to other people for fear of rejection. While Shinji runs away from people and hides in a bubble of self-pity, Asuka pushes people away with hostility and arrogance.
Raku Ichijo and Kosaki Onodera of Nisekoi quite blatantly have feelings for each other, however, they are unable to admit their feelings for each other. Of course, the fact that Raku has to pretend to be in a relationship with another girl due to family issues doesn't help. It takes over two hundred chapters for their relationship to change at all when Onodera finally confesses and gets turned down. She was simply too late by that point because the entire manga had been spent developing Chitoge and Raku's relationship until he finally cared more for Chitoge instead of her.
In Nyan Koi!, both Junpei and Kaede like each other, but neither one seems willing to make the first move. Other girls expressing interest in him also serves to confuse Kaede as to whether he's dating them, or may not really be interested in her.
In Papa no Iukoto o Kikinasai!, both Yuuta and Raike are interested in each other, but neither one seems able to admit their feelings to the other.
Kaizaki, main character of ReLIFE, is the subject of an experiment which turns people into teenagers and sends them to high school again. Because of this, he won't admit his growing feelings for Hishiro since she's 10 years younger than him and an actual high schooler. Turns out she's also in the ReLIFE program and is having the same problems after realizing she might have fallen for him.
Rurouni Kenshin went through this so long, it almost got annoying. Kaoru was too shy to tell Kenshin how she felt, and Kenshin wasn't sure if he deserved someone like her, especially since he accidentally killed his first wife Tomoe.
Sailor Moon has Shy Blue-Haired Girl Mizuno Ami meet a similarly shy genius named Ryo Urawa (who also had Psychic Powers). Only the intervention of her friends (and her saving him from his inner great monster) gets them on a date in one episode.
Julia and Ran from Strawberry Shake Sweet: they're both girls and each assumes that the other is straight, so they spend a good chunk of the manga orbiting each other in an increasing spiral of Unresolved Sexual Tension.
Rito and Haruna in To Love-Ru are the very definition of this. Rito tries confessing a few times but is always interrupted. She takes so long that while Rito still loves her, he also falls in love with Lala, making the situation even more complicated.
This is one of the main draws of Tonari no Kashiwagi-san. Yuuto and Kotone share several traits that make most of their problems and mistakes come from assumptions based on their insecurities. In something of a twist, Yuuto actually confessed his feelings very early on (literally the same day as his Love Epiphany), though he's still far too nervous to actually ask her out.
Tsubasa -RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE- plays with this. In the beginning, Syaoran and Sakura already too close but have yet to tell each other their feelings. However, Sakura's amnesia causes the relationship to reboot with Syaoran also distancing himself due to the fact that in order to help to her memories, he pays with all of her memories that include him. However, across the series, the two start feeling attracted once again until the two nearly die and confess their feelings.
In Yona of the Dawn, Yona and Hak eventually become this once their feelings are mutual. For her, it's a simple case of them being long-time friends and she's worried he doesn't feel the same and might even be creeped out by her feelings. It's a lot more complicated on his side of things, as he has always liked her, while she always liked their mutual friend Su-won. After Yona and Su-won's romantic future is destroyed by Su-won killing her father, he does try to pursue her for a while before Yona unknowingly rejected him. After a few more instances of misinterpreting her affections for him, he eventually seems to give up completely and absolutely refuses to admit how he feels for a long time. Ironically, it's him who grows so irritated with the misunderstandings between them that he blurts out a sudden Love Confession.
You're Under Arrest!: Miyuki and Nakajima are in love with each other. Everyone at Bokutou Precinct knows it. It's even implied that they're both aware of how the other feels, but they can barely look at each other without blushing, or getting cold feet. Their friends have even set them up on dates, to give 'em a push, but without success. Making the situation as frustrating for them, as it is for the audience.
    Comic Books 
In the early Spider-Man stories, Peter Parker tended to assume that his love interests simply couldn't be interested in a dweeby little science nerd. Once he hit off with Gwen Stacy, though, the rest was history.
Cloak & Dagger: Ty's too shy to ever think a girl like Tandy would be interested in him. Tandy thinks Ty only loves her as a friend. Cue the UST...
    Comic Strips 
In a FoxTrot arc, Paige and a boy in her class were in this situation, but overcame it and went to a school dance together. After this arc, the boy disappeared and Paige went back to her usual state of being unable to get a date.
    Fan Works 
Naruto and Hinata in Escape From The Hokage's Hat. Hinata's a Shrinking Violet with low self-esteem who still thinks he holds a torch for Sakura. Naruto doesn't want to jeopardize one of the only healthy female relationships he has and is afraid to be rejected. It takes a Freudian Slip to actually help them.
Naruto: If I was to ever date a girl, I hope she's as cute as you are. [beat; Oh, Crap! face then facepalm]
Hinata: W-w-w-well. I..I..I wouldn't mind.
Naruto: R-R-Really?
Hinata: Y-y-yes.
In A Growing Affection, this is the reason Yahiko's Operation: Jealousy fails; Nagato and Konan are both afraid to alienate him, due to their respective pasts.
In Tomorrow's Doom, it's quite obvious that Amaya and Tadao like each other, but neither wants to admit their feelings to the other. Aiko finally decides that enough is enough and nudges the pair toward each other during the festival.
The Stalking Zuko Series, it becomes obvious to everyone that Katara and Zuko both like each other due to their history and self-esteem issues, they think they are not good enough for each other or are in love with someone else.
Lance and Gwen's relationship in The Student Prince. Neither can work up the courage to ask the other out for a long time, both of them thinking the other is out of their league.
Hachiman and Yukino have a slight variation of this from The End of the Affair. While neither is really shy in the conventional sense, they both refused to ever admit their feelings for each other due to their similar philosophies towards life.
Weiss Reacts: Ruby and Weiss. It takes Ruby making the first move, caught up in the surge of victory after winning the music festival, for her to confess to Weiss, and for Weiss to respond in kind.
Lucina Reacts: Lucina and Robin. It's immediately clear both have massive crushes on the other, but are too shy to express it. It takes, of all people, Cordelia, Chrom, Maribelle and Robin's sort-of sister Reflet working together in tandem to get them to confess to each other, and even then Cordelia is forced to fall back on her second plan when her first plan backfires.
Cullen and Victoria, in All This Sh*t is Twice as Weird, are the only people in Haven who don't realize that their attraction is mutual. It provides a continual source of amusement to the rest of the Inquisition, particularly Mahanon and Varric. They do get better about it after the move to Skyhold.
A platonic/familiar variation occurs in Influenced Out of Normality when Tony Stark learns that Xander Harris is his son. Both want to spend more time with each other but for weeks are worried the other doesn't want him in his life. A month after learning the truth about his father, Xander finally calls Tony and after that, they spend as much time as possible together.
Recurring Characters A.J and Jeanette Fisher in Pokémon Reset Bloodlines quickly develop an attraction to each other, however, they keep it to themselves, deciding to take things slow. With a little help from their parents and their Pokémon, they get a Relationship Upgrade during the second Holiday Special.
The Flower Princess and the Alchemist: Some of Edward and Orihime's romantic interactions come off as this. Ed's dorkiness and Orihime's Shrinking Violet tendencies could be downright cutesy and endearing at times. Unfortunately, it prevents them from establishing a relationship when they constantly dance around each other. That, and other factors...
Mion from Surprising Butterflies is fine with being touchy around Rena, but she gets easily embarrassed about Keiichi. Keiichi is the same way towards her.
In Starry Night Love, Shantae and Bolo are both crushing on each other, but both are keeping it to themselves out of fear of ruining their friendship, as well as believing they aren't good enough for the other. It takes an accidental confession on Bolo's part for both to realize the truth.
    Films — Animation 
Implied in The Little Mermaid (1989) during Ursula's Villain Song. She describes (complete with magical illusions) a mermaid/merman pair who hooked up after she made each one more attractive. ("This one longing to be thinner/That one wants to get the girl...") It's possible to read this as the pair already liking each other, but each assuming they needed a Deal with the Devil before the other would reciprocate.
    Films — Live-Action 
The Dish: Glenn and Janine have this in spades. Drives others mental.
Cliff: He asked her out yet?
Mitch: No. [beat] Oh, this is painful.
In Where Is the Nophelet?, Pavel constantly sees the same beautiful girl on the bus he takes regularly but is too shy to talk to her. In the end, when he does muster the courage to do it, the girl confesses she was also waiting for him to make the move, since she was too shy to talk to him first.
    Literature 
Magrat Garlick and King Verence II in Discworld. Not only did he stick around, they got married.
The Remains of the Day deconstructs this painfully.
In Invisible Stanley, one of the sequels to Flat Stanley, Stanley helps a shy couple get married by creeping up invisibly behind the man, imitating his voice, and proposing to his girlfriend.
Nick and Lirael had the subtlest of hints towards a mutual infatuation in Abhorsen, which were complicated by his death. Luckily he got better, or else Garth Nix wouldn't have been able to confirm their infatuation in the short story "Nicholas Sayre and the Creature in the Case".
Piro and Ibronka in The Viscount of Adrilankha.
Ibronka: My dear Viscount, come over here and kiss me before I die of embarrassment.
Jane Austen sometimes likes this trope.
Edward Ferrars and Elinor Dashwood in Sense and Sensibility. Both are calm people who do not crush easily and hide their feelings. Proper Lady Elinor is aware that she must not appear too eager, especially when his family strongly disapproves of the match. Moreover, Edward is the Master of the Mixed Message and involved with somebody else.
Beta Couple Jane Bennet and Mr. Bingley in Pride and Prejudice. Jane is usually sweet but composed, so it's obvious only to her family and close friends that she likes Mr. Bingley. Mr. Bingley (correctly) thinks she likes him but is easily persuaded by his friends that she's indifferent, due to her Love You and Everybody personality. Had there been no meddling, those two would have gotten engaged after the Netherfield ball in the first third of the book.
To Live has Fengxia and Erxi...and they are both absolutely adorable, especially considering the setting of the novel.
The Princess Diaries: Michael and Mia have to resort to sending anonymous love letters and replying via a computer program in order to get their feelings out in the open.
In The Courts of the Morning, Barbara admits to a friend that she loves Sandy but believes she doesn't have a chance with him, and Sandy admits to another friend that he loves Barbara but believes he doesn't have a chance with her. The novel ends just as the latter friend nudges the two of them together. In the sequel, they're married.
Eleanor & Park begin like this, developing their romance just by sitting next to each other on the bus, not even speaking.
The Apprentice Adept book, "Robot Adept": Agape (in the body of Fleta the Unicorn) is approached separately by Trool, the Red Adept and the vampiress Suchevane. Trool (a literal troll) confesses he's head over heels in love with Suchevane but fears Suchevane would never come to him, except out of fear or pity, and doesn't want to press the issue himself, not wanting Suchevane to think he's leaning on her. Suchevane, on the other hand, fell in love with Trool, the first man who's ever treated her as a person, rather than unapproachably beautiful or a concubine. Agape suggests Suchevane tell Trool her feelings, then offer her companionship to ease their mutual loneliness, until such time as he finds a more suitable mate. Agape assures her he won't look any further. (He doesn't.)
Subverted in the Doctor Who Novelisations adaptation of "The Day of the Doctor". In her narration, Osgood keeps making Suspiciously Specific Denials that she sees McGillop as anything other than a work colleague, while at the same time assuming that his complimenting her intelligence is probably sarcastic in some way she hasn't worked out. Then she's given a snippet of his memory and learns that he thinks of her as a princess (and keeps looking at her bottom). Her reaction to this is to get over her crush because he hasn't seen her for who she really is at all.
In Twilight, Angela and Ben are supposed to be like this, made apparent in the unpublished Midnight Sun. Both were nervous about approaching the other because of their height difference, which Edward finds ridiculous. To repay Angela for being nice to Bella, Edward pretends like he's going to ask Angela to prom, forcing Ben to do so first.
In The Witchlands, Vivia and Stix are both attracted to each other and even share a small kiss at the end of the second book. Afterwards, however, Vivia's duties force her to act queenly, which makes Stix think Viv doesn't want to pursue a relationship, so she starts acting professional as well. This, in turn, makes Vivia think Stix would rather not continue what the kiss started, leading to a situation where they both want to be a couple while thinking the other one doesn't.
Vin and Elend have this relationship in Well of Ascension, the second Mistborn book. Vin is a street urchin turned assassin who loves Elend for his earnestness and willingness to do the right thing in the face of terrible consequences, and worries that she's not good enough for him because she's stronger than him, not traditionally feminine, and killed lots of people. Elend is a nobleman Non-Action Guy who loves Vin for her dedication and willingness to see the best in him, and worries that he's not good enough for her because he can't fight when she killed his god. There's a funny scene where Vin vents her worries to her friend Sazed, who gives her advice, and almost immediately after she leaves, Elend comes in asking the same questions.
    Live-Action TV 
Mavis Riley and Derek Wilton from Coronation Street were both incredibly shy and dithering, and this made their repeated attempts at a relationship very difficult.
In Smallville, Clark and Lana, and Chloe usually does the prodding when she is not head-over-heels for Clark herself. Lana on the other hand is not so happy about Clark and Chloe getting together.
Cliff and a costume party guest in Cheers. He's terrified at the thought of meeting her out of his costume, but he gathers up his courage and gets dressed up to see her again at the bar...and she doesn't show. She doesn't show because she was terrified to meet him without her costume. At the end, after she makes it back to the bar, they have to be literally pushed together to overcome their fear.
Manny and Roweena in Black Books. It takes Bernard bellowing "Offer her something, you fool!" at him to get Manny to make any headway with her.
Jeff and Julia in Coupling. (A rare example where the new character actually stuck around, as opposed to mysteriously vanishing by the next episode.)
Kaylee and Simon in Firefly have this. In Kaylee's case, it's less that she's shy (she isn't - hell, she got her job on the ship thanks to a one-night stand with the previous mechanic), and more that she feels inferior around Simon.
In the third season of The Office (US), Jim and Pam struggle with their feelings for each other, made more complicated by Jim's confession of love to her at the end of season two. In the Christmas Episode, both are saddened when they each see the other exchanging gifts with their respective significant others. Their attraction to each other eventually causes Jim's relationship with Karen to fall apart, and in the season finale he finally asks out Pam, who accepts.
How I Met Your Mother:
The page quote is from season 1, where Robin was pining over Ted who had been pining over Robin, but had just gotten over it and moved on.
Barney and Robin in the fourth season. Funny when you consider how much of a Handsome Lech Barney is. It seems like that old stuff: quick flings are one thing, but getting into a steady relationship is something completely different.
One episode of Sabrina the Teenage Witch had Valerie be too shy to ask out a guy. Sabrina decides to intervene by calling Cupid and asking him to make the guy in love with Valerie, but Cupid responds it would be a waste of an arrow because it's already clear that they both like each other.
Julian Bashir and Ezri Dax certainly give off this vibe in the penultimate episode of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. In the end, They Do.
    Music 
"I've Got This Friend" by The Civil Wars, with the obvious implication that the "friend" each singer is talking about is actually themselves, while the other suggests that their "friend" sounds perfect for them.
HoneyWorks' "Friday's "Good morning" and Friday's "Good morning -another story- tells the story of two students who see each other at the train car on their way to school everyday, and have spent weeks after weeks practicing saying "good morning" for each other, but neither ever worked up the courage to approach the other to say the simple greeting.
    Theater 
Anton Chekhov's play The Cherry Orchard. Self-Made Man Yermolai Alekseevich Lopakhin, the buyer of the titular orchard, has a troubled relationship with Varvara aka Varya, the Tsundere adopted daughter of its former owner, Liubov Andreevna Ranyeshkaya. In one of the last scenes, he works up the courage to ask Varya to marry him but ultimately feels too shy and guilty to do so. This scene fits in well with the overall tone of the play —which has all of its characters suffering because of their inability to act decisively.
In the musical Double Digits, the duet "Oh, no!" is sung by a popular jock-boy and a quieter girl who is tutoring him in maths. To wit:
Boy: She's so smart, I'm so dumb.
Girl: He's so cool, I'm so glum.
Boy: Why would she...
Girl: Why would he...
Together: ... have any interest in me?
Older Than Steam: In Much Ado About Nothing, careful attention to Beatrice's dialogue reveals that, at least on her end, the Belligerent Sexual Tension between her and Benedick has something to do with this.
Seymour and Audrey in Little Shop of Horrors. He is a poor grunt at a failing flower store who is constantly told he is an incompetent loser and thinks Audrey is just the prettiest girl ever, and she is an equally poor girl dating an abusive jerk and is also told constantly that she is dumb and worthless, and just thinks Seymour is the sweetest guy.
    Video Games 
The Legend of Zelda:
The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker: In a subquest in Windfall Island, you can photograph two people who have this problem. (They share a look.) The quest-giver will then use this photograph to help them along.
In Skyward Sword, this is the situation between Pipit and Karane, Link's fellow students at the Knight Academy. When Karane receives a love letter from another student, Cawlin, her public rejection of Cawlin's affections leads to her and Pipit revealing their feelings for each other.
A cut ending to Knights of the Old Republic 2 would have a female Exile's relationship with Atton resolved to look like this was going on for almost the entire game.
Used as a running joke in Mother 3 between a woman and man, both with almost identical dialogue. Their relationship progresses through the game.
Xenoblade: It's apparent, from the start, that Shulk and Fiora are in love with each other, yet both are too shy to take the next step. It takes Fiora almost dying during the Mechon's attack on Colony 9 and eventually being revealed to have survived to give Shulk the push he needed to finally convey his feelings to her.
Shulk: [resolutely] I won't let you go, Fiora.
A running theme in Immortal Souls for John, who's too worried about others finding out about his secret life to seriously flirt, and Allison, who worries about whether or not he's doing OK too much to ever get a chance to get beyond that. Though Allison finally eventually perks up enough courage to ask him out for coffee by the end of the first game.
Fire Emblem Awakening has three cases:
Olivia can potentially have this going with Lon'qu. Specially bad because Lon'qu Cannot Talk to Women in general for his Dark and Troubled Past, in which his First Love Ke'ri was murdered before his eyes (though it seems Olivia never learns this little detail). Whether they properly develop a romantic relationship or not, it depends on the player.
Olivia and Prince Chrom as well if the player manages to get their supports. (Easier said than done). This is played differently: Olivia starts out scared of Chrom due to his status as the Prince of Ylisse, Chrom tries to approach her but only manages to scare her off due to his No Social Skills, and their support chain is laced with awkwardness until the end. Again, whether they fall in love or not depends on the player.
Lucina and a male Avatar have this going on in their S rank support. Their circumstances are just so weird that, through their supports as a whole, the Avatar actively tries not to fall in love with her, but if the supports are completed he does anyway. And who could blame him considering she's his best friend Chrom's daughter from the bad future? If the Avatar comes clean to her in the S-Support, she's able to admit her own feelings as well.
In Fire Emblem Fates, it turns out that Ryoma and Elise can fall into this if they reach S-Support, since during said support Ryoma is under the mistaken impression that Elise likes another guy rather than him...
Prince Forrest and Nina can also have this going on, especially since she's a Socially Awkward Heroine who puts her foot in her mouth once in a while regarding him in their supports.
In Dragon Age: Inquisition, if neither are romanced, it is all but outright stated that Blackwall and Josephine are secretly attracted to one another but both are too insecure and shy respectively to openly make any move. The differences in their social standings (he's a Grey Warden and she's a member of the Antivan nobility) only make it more impossible, and they content themselves with gestures of Courtly Love.
In Until Dawn, Chris and Ashley.
In the Shovel Knight DLC story, Plague of Shadows, Plague Knight's ultimate goal is to brew the Ultimate Potion, which everyone assumes is for some evil purpose. This is shown to be wrong, as Plague Knight's true goal is to use the potion in order to become strong enough so that Mona will like him. However, as it turned out, Mona liked him the whole time but never confessed until Plague Knight had already finished. After defeating the monster that spawned from it, he decides he doesn't need the potion anymore and leaves with Mona.
    Visual Novels 
Bram and Henrietta in Shikkoku no Sharnoth. After a conversation with Mary, Henrietta decides to make her feelings clear. Too bad Bram dies pretty much immediately after she calls to meet up with him.
    Webcomics 
Varied because were they already together, but fell apart then in this strip of Loserz.
Emily and Matt in The Senkari.
Elan and Haley from The Order of the Stick are this for a while, which can be best seen in their Will They or Won't They? plot near the beginning of the Azure City arc. Due to character personalities, it's played out as Elan being Oblivious to Love and Haley deliberately refusing to ask Elan out because she is taught to mistrust people. But as seen in this strip they are both attracted to each other for a very long time.
Elliot and Susan from El Goonish Shive have gradually developed into this situation. The former fails at perversion and needs to work on his introspection and guilt issues. The latter is a Broken Bird with a Dark and Troubled Past and wants to avoid causing a Yoko Oh No situation. They're completely unaware that the other is attracted to them. Meanwhile, everyone else has either figured it out or at least has some inkling of it.
Mark and Sarah in Weregeek have had a silent mutual attraction since the early days of the strip, but Mark being in a committed relationship kept them apart. Even after Jess dumps Mark, the situation is still awkward because Jess blames Sarah for the breakup, due to a misunderstanding, and Sarah still feels guilty about it. They both eventually find themselves in new relationships, but there have still been several longing glances from both of them behind each other's backs...
There seem to be quite a few cases of this in Girl Genius, most notably in Paris, which - in keeping with its title as the City of Love - has more romantic subplots than most of the series. Zeetha eventually gets a bit fed up with it.
Zeetha: Everybody in Paris can't be like this. I mean, I've seen kids.
    Western Animation 
Danny and Sam from Danny Phantom. Even though it comes to a Last Minute Hook Up, it's still freakin' annoying.
This pops up in Miraculous Ladybug on the few occasions that Adrien and Ladybug are shown to interact. Since the series' Love Square consists of Marinette (aka Ladybug) crushing on the oblivious Adrien while Chat Noir (aka Adrien) carries a torch for Ladybug, this particular combination of personas leaves both a blushing mess.
In Over the Garden Wall, Wirt alludes to some kind of romantic trouble with a girl named Sara, complicated by another guy who is far too perfect for him to compete against. However, in the Whole Episode Flashback when we see these events, it's pretty clear to the viewer that Sara also likes Wirt, even if she isn't as ridiculously awkward about it, and that she doesn't return Jason Funderberker's interest in her.
Fanon in Phineas and Ferb uses this to explain why Phineas and Isabella aren't together yet. While Isabella has very clear attractions to him, she has yet to actually confess her feelings to him. Phineas, on the other hand, is so ambiguous towards her it rivals sadism.
The movie adds fuel to this fire. She kisses him just before they're going to have their memories wiped. He is surprised but does not seem displeased, and tries to say or do something before the procedure kicks in.
Again in "Act Your Age". Phineas developed feelings for Isabella in high school but was convinced he was in the "friend zone" and Isabella had given up on him ever recognizing her feelings so neither of them said or did anything. After a soul-crushing duet about what might have been, Phineas ends up chasing after her car and they share The Big Damn Kiss.
Candace and Jeremy seem to be a canon example, though for a long time it was hard to tell if Jeremy even liked her back. Season two made it a bit more obvious that he was nervous around her, with the episode "Nerdy Dancing" specifically switching their usual dynamic (he was trying to impress her rather than the other way around).
My Little Pony:
Bright Eyes and Lancer in My Little Pony Tales until their friends' failed makeover attempts forced them to come clean and admit their feelings for each other in a Be Yourself moment.
My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic: In "Hearthbreakers", Pinkie Pie introduces Marble Pie (her younger sister) to the Apple Family. It's obvious by the painfully little dialogue and subtle gestures of affection between Marble and Big Macintosh that the two have feelings for each other. Pinkie Pie ends up speaking for both of them at the party at the end of the episode. Unfortunately, fast forward a few seasons, and Big Mac gets an official fillyfriend named Sugar Belle, and even brings her with the group to the farm for "The Best Gift Ever", and a shot features Big Mac and Sugar Belle nuzzling each other quite happily, with Marble in the background cringing at the sight of it.
On Goof Troop, PJ developed a crush on a girl in his class, Rose Deckenbloom, after she recited a poem about being a Shrinking Violet, to which he could relate and thought was beautiful while everyone else in the class hated it. Then he spends much of the episode following everybody's bad advice about how to get her to like him. He tries to give her a present, but is too shy, so he asks Max to do it for him, which he does. Rose mistakenly thinks Max likes her and is delighted, but once they are at the dance she and PJ start to hit it off at the punch bowl... until Pete comes in and "helps" (he was trying this time, honest!) which causes Rose to run away in tears, thinking PJ doesn't like her. He then recites the opening lines of her poem and confesses to all the things he tried, she says she likes his true self more, and then this happens:
PJ: I don't suppose you wanna... sorta dance?
Rose: Umm... okay...
On Young Justice, Superboy and M'Gann can be interpreted as one example of this. Word of God suggests that Wally and Artemis are even more so, despite both always acting tough or flirtatious (toward other people) to cover it.
The Ever After High characters Alistair and Bunny both believe that the other is friendzoning them. How they came to this conclusion is never explained.
    Real Life 
The Yaghan language, spoken in Tierra del Fuego, is able to express this in one word. Mamihlapinatapai. "Two people are both at a loss as to what to do about the other."
Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland, who were often cast together, both had crushes on each other but sadly didn't act on them before his death.
Ian McKellen and Derek Jacobi were classmates in their youth and each had a crush on the other. They would not admit this until many years later.
Trevor Noah, the South African comedian and show host, tells in his autobiography how he was best friends with his crush for 3 years and how he wanted to ask her out for matric dance (South Africa's equivalent to prom), only to find out that she a) had moved away during summer break, b) to America, and c) had reciprocated his crush the whole time.

Divine Race Lift
Mr. Wednesday: There's a Jesus for everybody. Why, you got your white Jesuit-style Jesus, you got your black African Jesus, you got your brown Mexican Jesus, you got your swarthy Greek Jesus.
Shadow: That's a lotta Jesus.
Mr. Wednesday: There's a lotta need for Jesus, so there's a lotta Jesus.
— American Gods (2017)
In simplest terms, this trope is showing a deity with a standard appearance in a form people don't expect to see it in.
People expect deities to look a certain way. They expect the Hindu Goddess Kali to be an Indian woman. They expect the Norse God Thor to be a red bearded Viking man (or blond and clean shaven). But what if a work shows Kali as a white man, and Thor as a tiny Chinese woman? Well, that would be this trope.
A common subversion on the "old white guy with a beard" take on the Abrahamic God is for God to take on the appearance of a minority group instead, usually either black or female (or both). Sometimes, this stretches across to other religious figures, such as the Devil or angels. This could manifest as a subtle and humorous take on discrimination, or if done badly might come across as the Magical Negro trope on steroids. Of course, it could also be nothing more than the creator doing something different.
Sometimes it will be hinted that people just see whatever they want to see. This trope also shouldn't come across as a surprise for entities who are proudly shape shifters.
Note that just because an example of this trope involves taking the appearance of a minority group doesn't mean that it's also an example of Token Minority. See also Race Lift and Gender Flip.
Not to be confused with Ethnic God, which are gods who are tied to a specific locale or people.
  Anime and Manga 
Combining this trope and Mukokuseki means that Shinto gods in Anime can look completely un-Japanese. Or gods from another religions/mythologies that don't correspond with the appearance of people from which said religions/mythologies appear. For example, the incarnation of Athena in Saint Seiya is a Japanese girl.
In Noragami, Bishamon takes the form of a blonde white woman.
     Comic Books  
The comic Crimson features an appearance by God as a mute little girl who sells flowers.
Inverted in Lucifer somewhat in that God, after cycling through a dozen other forms, picks a portly, white, English gentleman. And is later replaced by a twelve-year-old girl.
In The Sandman, Death is a Perky Goth girl rather than being The Grim Reaper.
God has been portrayed as an elderly woman in earlier Spawn comics. And a fiery woman, at some point. And as a small black boy - with Satan as his sister. In Spawn God isn't really God God. Satan is his sibling as created by the "real" God God. They did their good vs evil schtick until the "real" God God got sick of it and made them little kids to give them "an appreciation for humanity". Also, the "real" God God is occasionally portrayed and often referenced as female. And was also Jesus. God God is called MoM (female) but it stands for Man of Miracles (male).
The Thor: The Mighty Avenger series portrayed the Norse god Heimdall as a black man. This was justified by making Heimdall a shapeshifter who simply prefers to take on the form of a black guy. Perhaps as a nod to the controversy around Idris Elba playing Heimdall in the MCU (see below), the Marvel Universe version of the legendary Norse hero Sigurd is a young black man. Subverted with Hogun the Grim, one of the Warriors Three. While Hogun is quite obviously Asian (and from the clothing appears to be Mongolian), he is specifically not an Aesir like Thor and the other residents of Asgard. His true homeland has not been named in the comics (it was conquered by a tyrant before he joined Asgard), but was named as Vanaheim in the MCU.
In Valérian the Holy Trinity manifests as an obese private detective straight from early 20th century Noir, a stoned hippie with stigmata, and a broken one-armed bandit. The characters who come from the 22nd century Galaxity don't see anything strange about this, while the 20th century Christian character sees them as charlatans or usurpers. Just how real a deal they are is never clarified, but the Father claims to remember Moses fondly.
In New Mutants, Native American Dani Moonstar became a Valkyrie.
Played with in the Italian satirical comic book Jenus: Jesus is represented as a white man (albeit short and with brown hair), but the fact he's supposed to be middle-eastern gets mercilessly and unsubtly lampshaded. Also, God himself is represented as the Italian-American Ronnie James Dio (as in God came on Earth in 1942 with the identity of Ronnie James Dio, sang a lot of music, and in 2010 he got pissed enough at the Church that he returned to Heaven). Justified as he's a shapeshifter that could have any form he wanted (and in fact the first time we saw him he was first a giant who suddenly became a flower in a vase), and Ronnie James Dio is just his favoured form.
Similar to Jenus, the Italian satirical comic (see a pattern) Suore Ninja had the Virgin Mary appear as what many characters describe a beautiful Swedish woman before finding out who she is and pointing out she should look middle-eastern. Justified as it's actually an impersonator, a male real estate agent impersonating Mary to increase the value of the lands near Medjugore.
There is an old issue of a comic book, likely printed in the '70s, where an astronaut goes on a mission to the end of the universe. When he returns he is immediately mobbed by the press who ask him if he met God. He says "first, she's black."
In Final Crisis, the New Gods of Apokolips take on new forms, with Glorious Godfrey posing as a black preacher, Desaad taking the form of Mary Marvel, and Granny Goodness posing as one of the Alpha Lanterns.
Discussed in Mage, when Kirby is bemused by Coyote, a Native American culture-hero, being African-American in this incarnation. Kevin says that it seems to be pretty random and points out that he (the modern incarnation of King Arthur) isn't British and Kirby (the modern incarnation of Heracles) isn't Greek.
Amaterasu, the Shinto goddess of the sun, is a Japanese deity. In The Wicked + The Divine, she's portrayed as a white girl. Naturally, Cassandra, who is of Japanese descent, has a huge problem with this. She repeatedly points out how offensive it is for a white girl to represent the persona of a Japanese goddess. The comic also shows that despite Cassandra's repeated protests, Ammy doesn't listen and her failure to be sensitive to another goddess, Sahkmet's anger, resulted in Ammy's death.
Wonder Woman:
Wonder Woman (1987): Demeter starts out as white as her siblings with brown hair, which is already a change from mythology where she's described as having golden blonde hair, and then later artists started depicting her as black without explanation. However, given as she's a manifestation of a Greek deity with stable power—unlike Zeus by this point—her appearance is entirely up to her.
Wonder Woman (Rebirth): Aphrodite in the DC comics had previously always stuck to the Western expected depiction as a blonde white lady, this version has brown eyes & hair and a light olive complexion which becomes amusing when later writers chose to alter this version of Aphrodite's family tree to go with her less popular mythological parentage of Zeus, the blue eyed (formerly) blonde guy.
    Fanfic 
In "Ayam," a crossover between Invader Zim and The Bible where Zim converts to Christianity, Jesus is portrayed as an Irken.
    Film 
Dogma: God appears as a slightly spacey woman played by Alanis Morissette toward the end of the movie. In a twist, He/She/It takes the form of a white-haired man with a beard - albeit poor and homeless - when (S)he visits Earth at the beginning of the movie. It is implied that Alanis appears because God's physical form is only a convenience for mortals, and She's what the ardently feminist protagonist needs God to look like. Presumably the old white guy- who was not witnessed by much of anyone but the camera (and some demons) - was simply habit. Rufus (the thirteenth disciple, and Chris Rock) mentions Jesus was black, which to an audience accustomed to a white Jesus may be another example of the same thing. Historical evidence suggests that Jesus had darker skin than what is usually depicted in Western artwork, but the perception remains that he looked fairly European.
In Bruce Almighty and Evan Almighty, God is Morgan Freeman, although it may be more accurate to say Morgan Freeman is God. But with that voice, who would mind?
In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the Asgardian Heimdall is played by the black Idris Elba. The Norse god upon which he is based was called "the whitest of the gods."note  This caused a minor controversy.
In Bedazzled (2000), the Devil is played by Liz Hurley and God is a black man.
God is Whoopi Goldberg in It's a Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie.
The Legend of Bagger Vance is apparently a retelling of the Mahabharata, an ancient Indian epic, with R. Junnah as Prince Arjuna and Bagger Vance as Vishnu/Krishna (who incarnated in the epic as Arjuna's charioteer).
Spoofed and played for laughs in the third Major League movie. When the team's manager is hit with a line drive, he sees a blurry figure as he's coming to. He first guesses it be God, then Moses before fully coming to and recognizing it as Serrano, the team's Big Guy who was introduced as a Scary Black Man in the first movie before subverting that all to hell. Later in the scene, Serrano teases the manager about the terror on his face when the manager realized that God was black. The manager immediately quips "Yeah, I always thought she was white."
This one is Older Than They Think: God was played by Black actor Rex Ingram in 1936's The Green Pastures.
The first Oh, God! film had George Burns's God take multiple forms, including a black woman and a Hispanic busboy. Burns' own portrayal of God as a little old man could rate as a mild example, as Grandpa God is usually depicted as tall and strong-looking.
A short film from the 1970s, Parable, reimagined first-century A.D. Palestine as a traveling circus and cast a whiteface clown as Jesus Christ and the other circus performers and carnies as his disciples. The Jesus-clown never spoke or even made a sound (except at the climax, when he screams while being crucified on a flying trapeze) and is completely white: white powdered face, white skullcap, white leggings and a short white toga. The toga was obviously supposed to evoke marble statues of Christ, but instead it makes the clown look literally like a statue, especially when he's viewed from a distance. He brings up the rear of the circus parade riding on a donkey, so we get the symbolism right off the bat. Of course, Jesus is also a clown (albeit a definitely human one) in the film version of Godspell.
Parodied in 21 Jump Street: the undercover police HQ is located in a church in Koreatown featuring a statue of Jesus that looks Korean. One of the main characters briefly prays to "Korean Jesus." In the sequel, since they've relocated to a Vietnamese church Jesus is now "Vietnamese Jesus".
The Brazilian movie O Auto Da Compadecida (aka "A Dog's Will") does have a black Jesus, although it's established that this appearance is simply the form he chose to assume.
The Adjustment Bureau originally cast and shot scenes with Shohreh Aghdashloo as The Chairman, portraying god as a motherly figure, whereas the case workers (angels) of the Adjustment Bureau are all men of various races. However, the role was left out of the final film to leave the Chairman's identity deliberately vague.
In Life Blood, God appears as a Lipstick Lesbian wearing a diaphanous wrap and nothing else.
In The Shack, God - or rather, "Papa" - appears as a black woman (Octavia Spencer) and also as a Native American man (Graham Greene). It's explained that these are forms the protagonist needs to see at different times. Jesus, meanwhile, is an Israeli man (Aviv Alush).
Blood of the Tribades: In-Universe, the priests of Bathor refer to him as male repeatedly. However, the female vampires do the opposite. The latter are right-she's a woman.
I Am Not an Easy Man: In the alternate world, God is always "She", in keeping with the female-dominated society. Christianity also has Mary as next in importance to God, with Islam having a female prophet.
Brazilian miniseries-turned-film O Auto da Compadecida has Jesus appearing as a black man specifically to play on the prejudices of protagonist João Grilo ("I thought you were very less burnt...").
    Literature 
American Gods
Mr. Ibis (Thoth) and his fellow Ancient Egyptian deities who live in Cairo, Illinois. Ibis notes that while for a long time, he and his family were just taken for foreign visitors, from the 1800s onward, people in the town assumed their Ambiguously Brown features meant they were black Americans, and thus from then onward, they've lived with/associated with that community in Cairo.
Shadow is implied to have a black mother, making him multiracial. Word of God says he looks like The Rock. He is actually the incarnation of Baldr, described as pure white in The Eddas.
In the Betsy the Vampire Queen series, Satan usually appears resembling actress Lena Olin, which is more of a Continuity Gag: Satan possessed Betsy's stepmother (then, her father's mistress) on a lark and ended up pregnant. "She" appears to Laura and Betsy in this form to remind them of their relationship.
In Piers Anthony's Incarnations of Immortality, in which ordinary human beings step into godlike roles at different times, the incarnation of Good (a.k.a. God) has been the Christian idea of the old white guy for quite some time. Eventually, he is replaced by a young woman of Indian and Caucasian descent. The incarnations of Fate and Nature are traditionally female and use the Greek names (Nature is Gaea, Fate is the trinity of Clotho, Lachesis and Atropos), but one Atropos is actually a disguised Gypsy man, and his predecessor was an African-American woman. The current Clotho is an Asian woman. And an incarnation of War (a.k.a. Mars) is a devout Hindu who doesn't believe in the role he's forced to fill.
The Shack. In addition to a black female God, they have an Asian hippie as the Holy Spirit.
"Female god" version in The Last Dragon Chronicles. However, She is also a dragon...
Someone in Steve Barry's The Third Secret observes that the Virgin Mary who appears in visitations doesn't look much like her real-life self would have.
In Ray Bradbury's "The Fire Balloons", a Catholic priest on Mars reminds his colleagues that Jesus looks different in every country where he is worshipped.
     Live Action TV 
On All in the Family Archie and Henry Jefferson get into an argument over the race of both Jesus and God, Henry claiming that they are both black. It comes up in another episode when Archie accidentally locks himself in the basement, gets drunk and becomes convinced he's dying and that the furnace man trying to rescue him is God coming to take him to heaven. In a Crowning Moment of Funny "God" turns out to be a black guy, causing a horrified Archie to fall to his knees begging forgiveness for everything he's ever said about blacks.
Archie: Forgive me Lord, the Jeffersons was right!
One episode of Blossom featured God as Father Guido Sarducci.
On the original British version of Cracker, the lead character is present during a natural childbirth. As the delivering mother is (obviously) in pain, he leans in and asks "Still think God is a woman?" (Of course, he is an archetypal Jerkass...)
On Daves World, Shel's young daughter goes as God for Halloween explaining that He is in fact, like her, a black woman.
In Good Times, JJ paints an otherwise traditional-style image of Jesus, which freaks out devout Christian Florida because A) he's black B) he looks like Ned The Wino and C) The Evans get a streak of good luck immediately upon JJ hanging up the painting.
Joan of Arcadia: God takes lots of different forms, possibly as a deliberate attempt to subvert both "old white man God" and "female/black/child/whatever God OMG!" Basically, whenever Joan is alone, God takes control of a person nearby (or, it's implied, was that person the entire time) and uses that person to speak to her, ranging from a boy she has a crush on to a badboy goth kid, to her lunchlady. Entirely appropriate for a show based on the song, "(What If God Was) One of Us". A parody by either MAD or Cracked showed God taking the form of a (female) stripper who gives lap dances, much to the Joan character's disgust. When called out on this, God fires back with "I could have disguised myself as a lawyer, but that would have been too sleazy."
The Kids in the Hall: Played for comedy in a sketch in which Scott Thompson's character sees a vision of a dead friend, who says he's in Heaven. Thompson asks "And how is God? That big, black lesbian in the sky?"
Inverted in a MADtv skit in which Jesus appears as the standard "white hippie" despite showing up in a black church. The skit doesn't even lampshade this, which arguably makes it funnier.
Pushing Daisies: The temporarily-revived corpse of the episode sees Emerson and inquires if he's God.
Black God on The Sarah Silverman Program.
Sarah: Are you God's black friend?
Teen Angel: Rod — semi-deity and cousin of the real God — was the floating head of Ron Glass. In one episode he also played the Devil's cousin Neville.
In TV Funhouse, most animals are Christian, and every church depicts Jesus as a member of the congregation's species.
Spoofed in Wonder Showzen. God is a black man, and he blew up the Earth because he didn't like the way "You honky-ass crackers are keeping the black man down." Wonder Showzen being what it is, he gets defeated in Rock–Paper–Scissors and kills himself.
Small Wonder had an episode in which Joan and Vicki were competing against Ted and Jamie on a camping trip, with everything going swell for the mother and daughter and rotten for the father and son. When Jamie asks his father why men always have bad luck when they compete against women, Ted can only suggest that God must be female.
In The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, Carlton is surprised to find that his guardian angel is not black.
In Roseanne, several of the characters would frequently joke that God was a woman. Roseanne simply did it because she was very feminist. Dan also said it in one episode. After spending the episode carefully navigating around Roseanne during her hysterical PMS-induced mood swings, he finally comes to the conclusion that "God is a woman" is the only way to explain why women can act the way they do during PMS and get away with it. In one Christmas episode, she also said, "Put out a tray of peanut butter cookies, I hear she likes those the best," but it's not clear whether she was saying Santa was a woman, or she was merely placing her order for later.
Guess what the [adult swim] series Black Jesus is about.
Troy: Fall of a City: Zeus is portrayed by a black actor, while normally of course he's shown looking Greek.
On The Good Place, the Judge (the closest thing the show's universe has to God) is played by Maya Rudolph. Lampshaded when she goes to Earth and finds out she's black.
Judge: Earth is a mess, y’all!… Also, I guess I’m black? And they do not like black ladies down there.
On Brooklyn Nine-Nine, Gina has a near-death experience. When asked what God looked like by Rosa, Gina replies "she's black".
    Music 
The OutKast album "Speakerboxxx/The Love Below" has an Andre 3000 skit, where he prays to god, who to his surprise is a woman. This causes him to rethink a lot of things, and he closes the prayer with "Amen. ...I mean... Ah Lady."
The Dishwalla song "Counting Blue Cars", (AKA: that song that goes "Tell me all your thoughts on God.. 'cause I'd really like to meet her.")
!HERO: The Rock Opera has the Messiah making His first visit to mankind as a black man. On the album and the DVD performance he is portrayed by Michael Tait.
Madonna's infamous and controversial video for "Like a Prayer" features the statue of a black saint who comes to life. Fans often mistake this figure for Jesus. He is actually St. Martin de Porres.
Lampshaded in Alfred Burt's Christmas carol "Some Children See Him".
Some children see him lily white
The baby Jesus born this night
Some children see him lily white
With tresses soft and fair

Some children see him bronzed and brown
The Lord of heav'n to earth come down
Some children see him bronzed and brown
With dark and heavy hair...
     Radio 
A sort of example in one of Marcus Brigstocke's rants on The Now Show, in which he explains that in his head, God sounds like Dr Hibbert from The Simpsons. So for the rest of this routine, God is represented by a white British guy (Brigstocke) doing an impression of a white American (Harry Shearer) playing the voice of an African-American (Hibbert).
In the Jeremy Hardy Speaks To The Nation version of the story of Abraham, Jeremy explains that "For the purposes of winding up bigots, God will be played by Debbie Isaacs."
     Real Life Religions 
Most depictions online of Australian deities look Caucasian. For example, take a look at what you come across when you research for Gnowee.
Jesus was a Middle-Eastern Jew. He probably had brown skin, a large nose, and curly brown hair. No one knows exactly what he looked like and racial phenotypes two thousand years ago might not correspond at all to ones we're familiar with, but he was a good deal swarthier than most modern pictures make him look.
In fact, as mentioned in this article, most cultures create images of Jesus as looking like themselves. This has led to depictions of Jesus as white, Black, and Asian. The image of the white man with long brown hair seems to have picked up the most momentum because Europe had one of the largest Christian populations, and one of the biggest outputs of art depicting him. This may eventually change, since most burgeoning Christian populations today are occurring on "darker-skinned" continents.
A Christmas tradition in Germany celebrates the Christkind (Christ child) or Jesuskind (Jesus child). Though some newer figurines sometimes adapt the brown hair that his adult versions usually has, more often then not he is depicted as a small child with blue eyes, bright blond hair, white skin, angel wings and a halo. If an adult plays it for a Christmas market or similar, he sometimes even turns into an apparently totally different entity, and is shown as a young woman with long blond or silver hair, gigantic wings, a golden halo and a long silver dress.
Several people of all races have either claimed to be Jesus or were considered to be Jesus by their followers. These include Wovoka (Paiute), Haile Selassie I (Ethiopian), Mīrzā Ghulām Aḥmad (Indian), Hogen Fukunaga (Japanese), José Luis de Jesús Miranda (Puerto Rican), Hulon Mitchell, Jr. (African American), and David Shayler (English).
In Chinese Bibles, God is referred to as "It" because the character for "he" includes the character for "man". This gets confusing because technically "she", "he," and "it" are all the same word in (most varieties of) Chinese (pronounced tā in Standard Mandarin), but with different characters for the three uses.
To go from the example given in the introduction, Thor was a redhead. So was Loki who tends to be dark haired in adaptations.
People from all over the world report seeing apparitions of the Virgin Mary. They always report that she conforms to whatever the ideal of feminine beauty is in their culture.
Most works of fiction produced in North American, European, and even some Latin American countries will depict the Greek love-goddess Aphrodite with blonde hair. In the 1967 Cream song "Tales of Brave Ulysses", however, Eric Clapton emphasizes her Mediterranean roots and explicitly mentions her "brown body" - necessarily (okay, not quite) suggesting that her hair would be black or dark brown. (Interestingly, the hair of Aphrodite's aunt Demeter, goddess of grains, is stated to be blonde - the color of wheat - in the recorded myths.)
Since many religions believe that divine figures have the power to take on different forms and appearances, it wouldn't be too farfetched to say that they can look however they want. In fact, the convention of referring to the Jewish/Old Testament G-d as male probably only came about because Hebrew doesn't have any gender-neutral pronouns — you use the male pronoun when you're talking about a mixed-gender group.
A painting of Pele at Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park generated controversy because it depicted the goddess as being Caucasian. It, however, remained in the visitors' center from 1966 to 2005. In 2003, a contest was held to make a more culturally-authentic depiction of the goddess. Out of 140 entries, a group of Native Hawaiian elders selected this◊ painting by Arthur Johnsen, and it replaced the other one in 2005.
     Standup Comedy  
Part of Ellen DeGeneres' routines involving meeting God. God is very naturally a black woman with a very nice house filled with baby pictures of Jesus ("Jesus riding on a tricycle, Jesus going trick or treating in a cowboy outfit") and regularly invites people around for coffee and cakes. And has the same habit of getting lost in conversations as Ellen does. Rumor goes that Ellen was supposed to play the big deity herself in The Remake of Oh, God! before the film went into development hell.
There's a joke about an astronaut who gets sent to the center of the galaxy, and his spaceship goes missing. When he suddenly returns, he calls the Chinese and tells them "I saw God. Pay me or I'll bring the end of your political system." Then he calls the Americans and tells them the same thing. They respond with "What do we care? This country was founded by people who believe in God." Then the astronaut says "Yeah, but they didn't know She's black..."
     Tabletop Games  
In Exalted, where there are literally millions of deities, the chief one, the master of the world and so on and so forth (the Sun) has a form of a four-armed man. However, his original form, before he favored humanity above other races was that of a huge golden dragon, with hundreds of arms and blazing eyes with galaxies in them. Prior to this shift he was also the racial deity of a Mayincatec dinosaur-people, so he's consciously aware of his image change. And that's way fucking cool.
Warhammer 40,000: The God-Emperor of Mankind, implied on occasion to have been Saint George or even Jesus, was born in Anatolia, and resembles a very tanned white man (well, before he looked like a cybernetic skeleton).
    Theater 
In Mac Wellman's play Sincerity Forever, Jesus H. Christ is a black woman with a heavy suitcase. The Most Magical Negro Ever Told.
In Bruce Jay Friedman's Steambath, the afterlife is a steambath, and God is the Puerto Rican attendant there. In 1973, a televised showing of the play (on PBS, of course) showing of the play garnered a bit of controversy for this (and more controversy for the fact that Valerie Perrine bared her breasts in the broadcast, making history as the first actress to show her nipples on U.S. television).
God ("De Lawd") in The Green Pastures, though He's not really a token since the rest of the cast is also black.
The 2018 televised stage production of Jesus Christ Superstar had John Legend in the role of Jesus.
    Video Games 
Oracle of Tao: God usually appears throughout the game as the Triforce. When actually pictured in battle, God looks like Pistis Sophia (Holy Spirit), a sort of Mother Earth archetype (God), and a female Jesus on the cross. This picture takes up the whole screen with an Amazing Technicolor Battlefield showing a few different creation myths spliced together.
Touhou: Suwako is a blonde Shinto goddess of Earth. And she was supposed to have carved significant chunks of Japanese land into existence.
Prince Shotoku —here known as Toyosatomimi-no-Miko and is a girl— looks like a very Caucasian boy, even though Japanese nobles from his time claim descent from Amaterasu.
Shou also looks like Caucasian boy despite being a disciple/avatar of Buddhist deity Vaisravana. In her case, she was a tiger prior to becoming an avatar, so the light-brown hair is justified.
Some characters in Yo-Kai Watch are based off of religious figures. For example, Lord Enma is based off the God of Death, but he's a young looking Bishōnen with red skin and yellow Anime Hair.
In The Elder Scrolls series, the Daedric Princes are Eldritch Anthropomorphic Personifications of the spheres over which they govern. Technically formless deities, they can take any shape they wish, though the majority do take a fairly consistent humanoid shape when dealing with mortals, with gender more likely to change between appearances (Boethiah and Mephala being most prone to this) than race. One exception is Nocturnal, where in Skyrim she appears as a white woman, while she appears in Online as a black woman.
    Webcomics 
In Overcompensating, the Devil is a black woman, while God is white trash (although He still has a beard).
The Devil in Narbonic is stated to be female, although she is not seen on-screen.
Satan, Andy's girlfriend on Casey and Andy is female as far as the rest of the cast is concerned- (s)he Has Many Forms, though, including a giant terrifying demonic one which certainly appears to be male, and which actually shows up pretty regularly. God seems to be male (and is dating "Andina" in the Dimension of Hackneyed, Stereotyped Opposites).
Boy Meets Boy features the Devil as a woman named Lucy.
Death in Finders Keepers is a rather personable Perky Goth who seems to have some sort of relationship with Cardinal. Other Powers That Be have been mentioned, but are so far firmly in The Omniscient Council of Vagueness territory.
Luci Phurrs Imps has God and Jesus as black men, Jesus is pretty laid back but God has nearly ended the world several times, only being distracted by watching 'planets funniest animals'
     Western Animation  
In The Boondocks, Huey Freeman believes that Jesus is black, while Uncle Ruckus believes that Jesus is white.
An episode of American Dad! had Steve envision God while stranded in the Saudi Arabia. She appeared to him as Angelina Jolie. He was able to convince everyone of God's wise words, including the easy, fair way to peace in the Middle East. Until he said God was a "she".
Steve Smith: Look, God is a woman! God is a woman. Geez!
Saudi man #1: Well, now we gotta kill him.
Saudi man #2: Too bad. He had some good ideas.
The New Zealand cartoon Bro Town features Pacific Islander characters — including a Pacific Islander God. And an entirely white Jesus. You figure it out.
Captain Planet and the Planeteers: Gaia, the spirit of Earth and Big Good. Voiced by Whoopi Goldberg, she falls somewhere in between But Not Too Black and Ambiguously Brown. Ironically, heroes and gods from Greek Mythology are usually depicted as white, despite being from the Mediterranean. This Gaia probably looks more authentically Greek than most, even if she does have purple hair. According to the show's own website she's supposed to have features from numerous races—dark skin (African), almond-shaped (Asian) blue eyes (Caucasian), etc. Any connection to Greek myth is In Name Only (especially since the mythological Gaia was rarely anthropomorphic and kept giving birth to monsters).
Family Guy:
According to Stewie, Jesus is actually Chinese, and his full name is "Jesus Hong." He has no idea where people are getting "Christ" fromnote .
There was also a Cutaway Gag about "Black Jesus." He is shown preaching to a crowd of entirely white Israelites, thus fitting the trope perfectly.
In the episode where he actually shows up, Jesus is shown to be a self-hating Jew. (He looks like the standard Hippie Jesus, but Peter takes a peek down the front of his underwear to verify his Jewishness.)
Moral Orel: Parodied somewhat where Buddha has the voice and mannerisms of an effeminate southern man.
In South Park, God doesn't even appear as a human — he's a hippo/monkey hybrid. He's also Buddhist - therefore, a member of a religion that generally denies the existence of a physical God (you figure it out) - even though Mormons are the "right" religion that gets into Heaven. Satan, on the other hand, is gay.
The Garfield In Paradise TV special had Jon and the pets vacation on a tropical island whose inhabitants apparently worship James Dean. (According to native legend, a man who looked exactly like Dean once drove his car into an erupting volcano to appease the demons within it and save the islanders, and now whenever the islanders see a classic '50s car, they think their god has returned.)
The Norse deity Heimdall is black in Avengers, Assemble! and Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., taking a note from the movies.
    Other 
Averted in several Chick Tracts. Even those that are "adapted for black audiences" show Jesus as white, albeit more Semitic than usual. Here is an example.

Quote Mine
"This wiki is [...] 'stereotyped and trite.' In other words, dull and uninteresting. We are [...] about [...] showing off how snide and sarcastic we can be."
— The old TV Tropes Wiki Home Page
Suppose Bob, a famous critic, says that Tropers: The Movie "had the potential to be a great work of art in different hands, but the lead actor is a drug addict and the director had no idea what he was doing." In the commercial, however, we hear that Bob has called the movie "[...] a great work of art[.]"
The commercial has just quote mined. It's a dirty, rotten, low-down trick, one of The Oldest Ones in the Book, and is a subtrope of Blatant Lies and Weasel Words. Features commonly in sloppy rhetoric and propaganda pieces. Unfortunately, this usually works with an ill-informed audience, as the speaker can usually expect that they will not check the source for the quotes. Frequently used as part of an ad hominem fallacious argument.
The act of quote mining is also referred to as 'quoting out of context.'
When this technique is practiced on audio to make a deceptive soundbite (as in confessional interviews on reality shows, or comments that are then used as voiceovers), it's called a "Frankenbite" — probably because in particularly bad cases, one can actually hear where two audio clips were spliced together. In some circumstances, this can be acceptable, provided the audience knows it's been edited.
Compare/Contrast Quote Swear Unquote (fiddling with quotes, but not passing them off as accurate). Also compare Manipulative Editing and Recorded Spliced Conversation. Very likely to lead to Beam Me Up, Scotty!. Despite the similarity in sound, has nothing to do with Enemy Mine.
Sister Trope to Twisting the Words, when they did say the actual quote in question but a crucial nuance or meaning was misrepresented.
Advertising 
Advertisers commonly do this to hype critical acclaim for pretty much any product they want to sell.
Dennis Miller once noted that if he said, "Whoever made this movie should be put in a gas chamber", the ads would read, "... a gas! — Dennis Miller".
Roger Ebert, in his scathing review of The Last Boy Scout, said: "Perhaps propelled by the determination of its star, Bruce Willis, to erase the box-office curse of Hudson Hawk, this film panders with such determination to the base instincts of the action crowd that it will, I am sure, be an enormous hit." Guess which three words the posters loudly declared Ebert saying? (Although he did it give a three-star "Good" rating.)
He also got quote mined for his review of G-Force where he called the film "non-stop, wall-to wall madcap action." G-Force proudly presented this on their posters, ignoring that he was criticizing that aspect of the movie, not praising it, and that he actually gave the film 2 1/2 stars (mediocre).
On the other hand, he was well aware of this trope, as anybody who works in newspapers is, and actually called out advertisers preemptively who might do this for his review of Dumb and Dumber (where he wrote that he laughed himself silly at the parakeet scene, but didn't enjoy the rest of the movie).
The marketing for Terminator 3 mined Ebert's review — "'Terminator' is made in the spirit of these slick new action thrillers, and abandons its own tradition to provide wall-to-wall action in what is essentially one long chase and fight, punctuated by comic, campy or simplistic dialogue" — for the blurb, "Wall-to-wall action!" Ebert remarked wryly, "You have to admit 'wall-to-wall action' does accurately describe the film. So does my closing sentence: '...dumbed down for the multiplex hordes.'"
Another one, slightly more subtle: Anatomy of Hell says on its poster that it was deemed "provocative" for its graphic sexual sequences, but leaves out any indication of whether the reviewer thought the provocation was a good thing.
Discussed in this article.
It can be safely assumed that if a review blurb contains ellipses, what is being left out is less than complimentary. For instance, if a blurb says "This film is... an amazing achievement", you can bet that the full statement is something along the lines of "This film is so mind-numbingly stupid that getting anybody to go see it would be an amazing achievement."
On the back of the box for Rock of the Dead is a quote from IGN: "Why didn't anyone think of this before?" The 5.0 out of 10 score that IGN gave the game is omitted.
The Sands Of Oblivion DVD has the quote "'One of the most unique story ideas for any movie the Sci-Fi Channel ever produced' — Dread Central" The respective review gives it two "knives" out of five and laments on how wasted said unique ideanote  was.
The Lying Ape brings up two instances of this happening to book reviewers. One reviewer was quoted as saying, "People will rush out and buy this book"; the full sentence had been, "Only crazy people will rush out and buy this book." Another gave a book a scathing review and made it clear he hated it, but as he was reviewing it in January, ironically tacked on at the end, "Best book I've read all year." Naturally, only the last line was quoted on the book cover.
The New York Post has a regular column titled "Required Reading" which contains quick takes (a short paragraph in length) on various new books. One column included a mention of the 2013 novel Christian Nation. On the novel's promotion page, they included the blurb "'Required reading...' —New York Post" (treating the name of the column as praise for the book).
Comedian Michael McIntyre admitted on Have I Got News for You that he used to advertise his act as having received four stars, neglecting to clarify that that was the sum total of stars from all his reviews.
Infamously bad shooter Daikatana featured a quote from PC Zone on an ad, reading "Absolutely brilliant" — these two words were taken from a preview which appeared years before the actual game (PC Zone actually gave the game 53% and a very negative review).
This happened to one EGM previewer when he wrote a preview blurb about Bubsy 3D embarrassing him for many years. For those not in the know, Bubsy 3D is widely considered to be one of the worst games of all time and managed to kill Bubsy as a character- until 2017 when someone had the bright idea to bring him back.
The song "Strut" sung by Sheena Easton is about how terrible it is for men to look at women as sex objects. ("Strut, pout, Put it out/That's what you want from women"). When the song was used in an advertisement for a health club in the United States, every second line was deleted, resulting in the song having the exact opposite meaning ("Strut, pout, Put it out/(silence)").
Advertisements for Collateral quote a review as saying the film is "a knockout." The actual review says the film declines in quality toward the end, but says "the first two thirds is a knockout."
Dr. Pepper once had its cans featuring American images and the Pledge of Allegiance quote "One nation...indivisible." While not originally used in the Pledge, the ellipsis are precisely where "under God" has been used for many years. On the other hand, those words have only been a part of the pledge since 1959; the rest of the pledge is considerably older.
Done for laughs in a Chevy ad displayed at Universities. Certain words are in dramatically larger font than the rest, such that from a distance the poster reads "CHEAT ON YOUR EXAMS".
Back in 2007 or so when Monster Cable introduced the now popular Beats by Dre headphones, they pulled a quote from an Engadget article that wasn't even a review. Needless to say, this caused a bit of backlash.
Isaac Asimov was once asked to a review a scientific book. He quickly decided that it was pseudoscience, and also poorly written. When he declined to write a review, the authors asked if there were any errors in the book. Since he had barely read it, he politely answered that he had not found any. The cover blurb read “ISAAC ASIMOV COULD FIND NO ERRORS!”
In this ad for Kellogg's Caramel Nut Crunch Cereal, a stock-boy, Wally, at a shop unwittingly creates this effect for himself. A girl comes back to find him sitting around eating the cereal and tells him that he needs to get off his butt and stock it. However, because so much of what she's saying his drowned out by his crunching of the cereal, what he hears her say is "I like (crunch crunch) you, Wally. Like, I'm totally (crunch crunch) nuts (crunch crunch) about you."
An Instagram promo for Taylor Swift's album Lover cited a review by The Indepedent writer Alexandra Pollard, who apparently called it "a brilliant album." Pollard's actual quote was, "There is a brilliant album among the 18 songs, if only it had been pruned a little," which Pollard pointed out on Twitter.
    Anime and Manga 
In Turn 19 of Code Geass R2, Schneizel pulls this on Lelouch with the latter's Sarcastic Confession to Suzaku of deliberately geassing Euphie to kill the Japanese. When using the recorded conversation as part of a case against Lelouch as Zero to the Black Knights, Schneizel cherry-picks the most incriminating words, leaving out the rest of the conversation including Suzaku noting that Lelouch had been lying. This, with the help of some more cursory evidence presented by Villetta with the support of their own Ohgi, leads them to jump straight to the conclusion that Lelouch can't be trusted and must be put down immediately. Which isn't a bad conclusion, but they probably could have been a bit more patient. In fact, the movie version changes it a bit so that they are, and want to hear the truth out of Zero first, while Schneizel's men are the ones who try firing on him anyway. Ohgi is even the one who attempts to call them out on this because they don't have their answers yet.
In episode 5 of Sengoku Collection, the documentary filmmaker Morse does this after interviewing Bokuden and others, turning public opinion against the various samurai girls.
    Comic Books 
The Golden Age MAD feature "Movie... Ads!" showed how movie advertisers can cut and paste 1/16-star reviews into more positive-sounding quotes:
(Newspaper critic:) "NEW LOW IN MOVING PICTURES: A colossal time waster was Warndher Bros' latest release The Spectacle. What stupendous nerve they had in showing such a picture. It was wonderful to get out of the theater. I was dying looking at this dog and it felt so good to leave when it finally ended..."
(Same critic as quoted in ad:) "New... a colossal time... stupendous... wonderful... felt so good..."
An issue of Simpsons Comics has Bart sneak into Lisa's room to steal and/or destroy various items. He comes upon her diary, reading "This morning, Mom whipped some eggs. Dad slept late. We mocked Bart for leaving the dog in the basement all night." Using white-out and some alterations with his pen, Bart changes this to "This morning, Mom whipped Dad. Later, we locked Bart in the basement all night." He then submits the altered diary to a literary magazine competition in order to humiliate his sister — but the work is hailed as a masterpiece, and Lisa is offered a book deal!
In a very early Lois Lane story, a source in a scandal Perry White is investigating offers a prepared statement to Lois, and asks her to witness it by reading it out loud while he records it. But Lois realizes that he's recording only certain words, turning the statement into Lois saying that she saw Perry take bribes. She stops before he can get anything useful, and then takes out the source and several goons with a mop, a bucket, and a candy gun.
    Comic Strips 
In a Dirkjan comic, Bert writes a novel. One reviewer describes it as "pure nonsense, which should never have been published". Later prints of the novel cite the review as "pure".
One FoxTrot strip had Jason recording Paige talking on the phone: "I need to cut three articles out of the newspaper for Mr. Vivona's class every day this week, and the only pair of scissors I have is like totally dull." He then gets on the computer and edits it so she's saying "I cut class every day this week. Mr. Vivona is like totally dull."
A Hsu and Chan comic explained that the title characters do this when their games are rated poorly. "Even the bad reviews are wordy enough that we can at least cut-and-paste together a decent blurb."
Quote on the game box: Not... That... Bad!
    Films — Animation 
This happens in The Chipmunk Adventure when Alvin needs to explain the absence of himself and his brothers during an around-the-world balloon race to their nanny Ms. Miller. He records Dave during a phone call, and then quote mines to convince the nanny (via another phone call) that Dave wants the kids to join him on his business trip. They nearly get caught when the tape gets stuck and Ms. Miller hears Dave slurring the words "Mooooooss Moooollurrr" and accuses Dave of being drunk.
    Films — Live-Action 
The second live-action Scooby-Doo movie, Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed, makes use of this. A news reporter (secretly the main villain) takes Fred's comments and remarks out of context to defame the gang. For context...
Fred: Hey! You're doing that thing again where you take everything I say out of context. You're trying to make it look like I think Coolsville sucks! No, don't record that!
A partly non-spoken example comes from The Remake of Mr. Deeds Goes to Town—when Deeds rescues a woman from a burning building, a reporter edits the footage to make it look like he raped her, threw her cats out a window, and laughed at the prospect of being brought to justice.
In Used Cars the competition makes an obvious edit in the protagonist's ad saying they had "...style of cars" to "a mile of cars" and used it in court, suing for false advertising; the protagonists then had to scramble to assemble 5,280 feet of cars on the lot.
The creationist documentary Expelled features interviews from a number of scientists and critics of intelligent design, who later publicly accused the film of quote-mining them. Michael Shermer claims that he accused interviewer Ben Stein of fishing for certain responses during the interview itself.note 
Richard Dawkins made a parody video in response to Expelled where he did this to his own clips, as well as cutting Stein so that he is arguing that there is unfair bias against the "stork theory" of childbirth.
They also used the quote mine of Darwin from The Descent of Man described in the Real Life section.
Religulous by Bill Maher was caught out in a similar manner to Expelled:
The interview with scientist Francis Collins was heavily edited to misconstrue Dr. Collins' arguments.
Maher quotes John Adams as saying "This would be the best of all possible worlds, if there were no religion in it." In reality, Adams meant the exact opposite, as the context (from an 1817 letter to Thomas Jefferson) shows:
“Twenty times in the course of my late reading, have I been upon the point of breaking out, ‘This would be the best of all possible worlds, if there were no religion in it.’!!! But in this exclamation I should have been as fanatical as Bryant or Cleverly. Without religion, this world would be something not fit to be mentioned in polite society, I mean Hell.”
Used in Spice World to discredit the girls. During an interview, one of them answers a question with "Is the Pope Catholic?", as in "Yes, of course." A tabloid quotes the response, conveniently leaving out the context that it was a rhetorical question. Since "Is the Pope Catholic?" is a very common rhetorical question, it's hard to imagine many people falling for that trick in Real Life.
Documentarian filmmaker Michael Moore has been demonstrated to do this in quite a number of his films, particularly his more recent ones.
Bowling for Columbine, probably his most egregious example, did this quite blatantly with Charlton Heston. Observant viewers noticed that his clothes changed during a single speech. They also cut his post-Columbine speech at the line "we're already here", making his point (that NRA members were part of the emergency personnel at the tragedy) sound more like a smarmy mockery of his anti-gun opponents.
A Canadian documentary on Moore himself Manufacturing Dissent points up just how much of his films' impacts are derived from this sort of quote-mining and Manipulative Editing. Particularly pointed since, unlike most criticisms of Moore, this one was done by people who considered themselves his fans.
USA Today's review of the Eragon movie described it as "a pleasant enough fantastical adventure, but it does feel naggingly derivative." A commercial for the movie cropped the testimonial, rendering it "A FANTASTICAL ADVENTURE!"note 
In Iron Man 2, during the Senate subcommittee hearing, Senator Stern deliberately has Colonel Rhodes quote a section of his report on the Iron Man armor out of context. Rhodes points out exactly what he's doing before consenting to read the passage, then continues on to the rest of the statement that disagrees with Stern's point over the senator trying to cut him off.
In You've Got Mail, Joe Fox represents a chain of bookstores, whose newest location is right next to the small indie shop owned by Kathleen Kelly. Both are interviewed by the local TV news, but Fox's interview is edited down to the seemingly-standoffish line "I sell cheap books. Sue me." Fox, watching the broadcast, is not amused, and reads off a long list of all the positive things he said about his store. In that same TV news segment, Kelly repeats a sarcastic quip made by Fox in a previous discussion, but she strips out the sarcasm. Her stilted delivery suggests she's uncomfortable doing this, so it's easy for the audience to forgive her.
In Live Free or Die Hard, the villains' terror-inducing public message is entirely built out of quotes from presidents ranging from Dwight D. Eisenhower to then President George W. Bush. One of the hackers responsible for the message quips that he tried to find more Nixon.
Parodied in some of the marketing and covers for Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby. The posters/covers proudly display the quote "Best movie ever made" attributed to Ricky Bobby. Ricky is the protagonist of Talladega Nights, the quote comes from inside the movie itself, and the compliment was actually directed at Highlander.
xXx: State of the Union: Secretary Of Defense General Deckert has the President at gunpoint as part of the former's plan to overthrow the U.S. Government. The President asks why Deckert is doing this, to which he responds by quoting Thomas Jefferson selectively and gets called out on it by the President. Which, given the context of the rebel speaking to the leader he's overthrowing, should not be as devastating a retort as it's played as. Shooting himself in the foot really, unless Deckert genuinely thinks of himself as the tyrant in that situation.
General Deckert: "The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots."
President James Sanford: "... and tyrants." That's the end of the quote.
In JFK, footage of an interview is used to depict Kennedy as ready to withdraw from Vietnam. The clip ends before the President tells Walter Cronkite that “I don't agree with those who say we should withdraw.”
Played with in Batman Returns when Bruce Wayne jams the Penguin's microphone while he's giving his mayoral candidacy speech and then plays a tape of him saying, "Hey, just relax! I'll take care of the squealing, wretched, pinhead puppets of Gotham!" and then "You gotta admit, I played this stinking city like a harp from Hell!" As the crowd starts to become angry, the Penguin insists "I didn't say that" - which, From a Certain Point of View, is true. He didn't say it live, at that very moment, so Wayne's implication that he was saying those words in front of all those people (and obviously, he wouldn't have) was deceptive. But he had said those things the night before, when no one except Batman could hear them...not anticipating that Batman would record them for posterity. So it's an Engineered Public Confession: taken out of context, but not a Frameup either.
A 2014 documentary called The Principle purports to show astrophysicists arguing in favor of a geocentric universe. However, all the physicists featured in the film were quick to disavow it, claiming they were quote mined and misinformed about the actual agenda of the film. One, Dr. Lawrence Krauss, penned an article for Slate with the withering title "I Have No Idea How I Ended Up In That Stupid Geocentrism Documentary". Even the film's narrator, Kate Mulgrew, says she was misled about the actual content of the film and never would have participated if she had known.
Casino. Sam Rothstein runs his casino via a front man as he doesn't have a casino license. A journalist keeps probing him on the issue until he admits he is the boss "on a day to day basis". The headlines have a picture of Rothstein saying, "I'M THE BOSS" and a corrupt politician he's alienated uses this to have an investigation launched.
In the comedy Backfire! (1995), the conniving politician edits our hero's speech with some obvious jump cuts to make it look like he's backing her policies.
In Ski School (1990), the heroes set up two villainous underlings by having a beautiful woman proposition them (separately) and insist that they answer her questions in complete sentences. They edit the two filmed conversations together into the underlings luridly propositioning each other. While it is pointed out that they are obviously not even in the same room, the shot then cuts to the two of them meeting up in a hotel room, each expecting to find the woman.
In Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, the paparazzi take advantage of Smith's naiveté and goad him into making quotes and poses that they print out of context to make him look like a ridiculous rube. He is extremely upset by this.
In Paddington 2, the Browns lure Phoenix using a recording they made of carefully selected material from a taped conversation with his agent.
    Literature 
Scott Adams pointed this out in a Dilbert book, where he had an example of a press release complaining about the media, and how it would be reported by the media:
Our company is skilled in many other things that are never reported by the biased media.
Luckily, it works both ways:
Original Literal Quote: The lack of quality and complete disregard for the market are evident in this product.
Edited for Readability: The quality are evident in regard of dis product.
In The Dresden Files novel Changes, Harry uses this to pull a fast one on the Erlking when he accidentally intrudes in his halls. Being one of The Fair Folk, however, the Erlking is less annoyed and more amused at Harry being so quick-witted.
In a letter to Private Eye remonstrating with their caustic review of The Steep Approach to Garbadale, Iain Banks predicted that his publisher will take Bookworm's phrase "Quite entertaining, but full of undifferentiated dialogue, and looking as though it was cobbled together in about three weeks", remove 2/3 of it, and slap "Quite entertaining - Private Eye" on the paperback cover. They didn't.
Artemis Fowl does this in the second book. He mines a recorded conversation with his mother for quotes that he then combines into an entirely different message to fool his school principal.
In The New Atheism, new atheist Sam Harris demonstrates that many Christian apologists have engaged in this practice in quoting atheist authors in books that they've written to try to refute them.
In Forced Into Glory: Abraham Lincoln's White Dream by noted black historian Lerone Bennett Jr., Bennett describes how many Lincoln biographers and other "gatekeepers" have done this in regards to quotes that would present Lincoln in an unfavorable light, omitting portions so that they make him seem favorable. One such example noted is that "Members of the Feelgood School tell us that Lincoln said at Cincinnati that 'there is room enough for all of us to be free'. They don't tell us that he said in the same speech that there was no room at all for slaves in the South to be free and that it was necessary to provide 'an efficient fugitive slave law' to return to slavery fugitive slaves who believed there was room for us all to be free." It's true that Lincoln later rejected such views, but they generally omit that he'd ever held them.
Done with an In-Universe religious text in the Ciaphas Cain novel Duty Calls. A rogue Ordo Hereticus inquisitor shrugs off shooting desperate civilians who tried use his shuttle to escape a Tyranid attack with the line "The path of duty is often a stony one." Cain is apparently quite fond of that text, recognizes the Quote Mine for what it is, and is furious about it underneath the pleasant poker face he needs to keep up. Amberley Vail's footnote reveals that the latter half of the sentence changes the meaning completely, to mean essentially the opposite:
"The full quotation ... runs 'The path of duty is often a stony one, made easier by thought for others.'"
In The Fountainhead Roark is interviewed by a tabloid newspaper about his controversial Temple of the Human Spirit. His exact words are "I can’t tell anyone anything about my building. If I prepared a hash of words to stuff into other people’s brains, it would be an insult to them and to me... I want to ask every man who is interested in this to go and see the building, to look at it and then to use the words of his own mind, if he cares to speak." This gets reported as "Mr. Roark, who seems to be a publicity hound, received reporters with an air of swaggering insolence and stated that the public mind was hash. He did not choose to talk, but he seemed well aware of the advertising angles in the situation. All he cared about, he explained, was to have his building seen by as many people as possible."
Parodied in 1066 and All That, with a spoof quote that simply reads "This slim volume..." - implying that the rest of the quote was entirely negative.
One review of Good Omens included the line "Good Omens is a direct descendant of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, a vastly overpraised book or radio program or industry or something that became quite popular in Britain a decade ago when it became apparent that Margaret Thatcher would be in office for some time and that laughs were going to be hard to come by." Despite the reviewer clearly intending it as a negative comparison, the publishers couldn't wait to put "a direct descendant of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" on the cover of the next edition. And, like them or loathe them, it is a fair comparison, so it's one of the less dishonest examples of the trope.
On his blog, Joe Abercrombie reviewed The Steel Remains, and discussed how publishers asked him to provide a tagline. Abercrombie's tagline was, "“Bold, brutal, and making no compromises – Morgan doesn’t so much twist the cliches of fantasy as take an axe to them. Then set them on fire. Then put them out by pissing on them.” He correctly predicted that the publisher would remove the last part, which rather changes the meaning. Absent that part, the caption sounds like Abercrombie, identified with the "grimdark" fantasy subgenre, is praising a fellow practitioner. However, with that part, the caption reads more as Damning With Faint Praise and indicates Abercrombie's actual opinion (voiced in the review) which is more to the effect that Morgan's book was too grimdark even for him-.
Honor Harrington: Flag in Exile has this exchange between Honor and a misogynist reactionary Grayson minister who crashes a party at her Steading.
Brother Marchant: You corrupt the Faith by your very presence, by the unclean example and ideas you carry like pestilence! "Beware those who would seduce you, my brothers. Heed not those who would defile the temple of your soul with promises of material things and worldly power, but hold fast to the way of God and be free!"note 
Honor: Perhaps you should finish your citation, Sir. I believe that Saint Austin ended that passage with "Shut not your minds to the new because the chains of the past bind you tight, for it is those who cling most desperately to the old who will turn you from the New Way and lead you once more into the paths of the unclean."
In The Day of the Locust, failed vaudeville clown Harry Greener keeps multiple copies of a mildly positive New York Times review of a performance he gave that ends with the observation, "My first thought was that some producer should put Mr. Greener into a big revue against a background of beautiful girls and glittering curtains. But my second was that this would be a mistake. I am afraid that Mr. Greener, like certain humble field plants which die when transferred to richer soil, had better be left to bloom in vaudeville against a background of ventriloquists and lady bicycle riders." Harry tells the book's protagonist, Tod Hackett, that he took out an advertisement in Variety that reduced this quote to "... some producer should put Mr. Greener into a big revue..."
A popular qoute/aphorism about vikings goes something like "A viking was once asked what he believed in and he responded: I believe in nothing but my own strength". That is an episode is from Færeyinga Saga. What most people leave out is that the conversation is between two vikings. And that the episode ends a pagan idol mysteriously letting go of a magic ring so it can be passed to the non-believer to give him protection.
    Live-Action TV 
The Daily Show does this quite frequently, usually in the form of interrupting a speaker to make a joke and then not revisiting the clip. The Daily Show has lampshaded this and will often play the second part of a clip that directly contradicts the first part. At least, it will now.
Stephen Colbert is often accused of doing similar things in his interviews. He once lampshaded this by inviting a reporter to interview him and making easily editable statements like "There are people who say THE TROOPS ARE STUPID!... I am not one of those people." "President Obama is VERY SCARY TO WHITE house PEOPLE... who are hoping for a Republican victory."
In Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip, Harriet talks about how the Bible says homosexuality is a sin. She goes on to point out that the Bible also says that we are not to judge. Guess which part of the quote gets printed. Kind of an example itself; the Bible says everyone is a sinner, and "judge not" is a commonly-mined quote itself; see the Real Life folder.
The episode "The Illusion of Truth" in Babylon 5 featured a news report which did this, along with a whole bunch of other ghastly "journalistic" tricks, to cast the titular station in a very bad light (this happened after the newly authoritarian Earth government took over the news channel in question and turned it into an overt propaganda outlet).
Although given that the B5 staff knew this was probably going to happen, you'd think they would have refrained from giving the reporters ammunition like "no force in the universe can stop us" to work with. Sheridan claimed that they gave them little to work with, but he must not have been paying as much attention to his words as he thought.
Sometimes they give them nothing and it's still abused. In another clip, alien Ambassador Londo is complaining to Sheridan about the climate control in his quarters while Sheridan smiles and nods. Londo concludes with "This is highly inappropriate, Captain." The news report narrates over everything but the last sentence with a bit about how Sheridan is now taking orders from aliens. And cuts off just midway through Sheridan's highly insulting (to Londo) rebuff.
In another case, simply removing all audio and replacing it with a voiceover works. So a scene of Lennier, a Minbari, showing the reporter where the station's (mainly Human) homeless live and telling him about the social plans that Sheridan tries to use to help them, while Dr. Franklin rushes past helping a heart attack victim, turns into one in which the aliens are dominant over the Humans, and anyone who objects is sedated and taken away by Dr. Franklin to be experimented on. Plus, the fact that Delenn previously made herself a Human-Minbari hybrid is obvious evidence that they are hoping to make other hybrids using genetic alteration.
Brass Eye has Nicholas Parsons reading a poem purportedly by anthropologist Desmond Morris about the plight of an elephant in an East German zoo (note that it was filmed in 1997, long after Germany had reunified) that's got its trunk stuck up its backside. The footage is strategically and very obviously edited — watch here (the relevant bit starts at 3:17):
NP: Aren't we a bunch of fuckwits? An elephant could no more get its trunk up its arse than we could lick our balls.
The Late Show With David Letterman had a segment called "Late Show Unfair Edit" in which they would splice together words from a politician's speech or interview to make it appear that they said something stupid.
Happens to Bette in The L Word. When ambushed by Faye Buckley about a controversial exhibit at her museum, Bette defends it, but her words are later mined to make it sound like an admission that she and the exhibit are perverted.
Happens to GOB in Arrested Development when he is accused of killing an old man who went missing. He tells the reporters who accost him, "Don't edit this for your broadcast so it looks like I'm screaming, 'I killed Earl Milford!'" Needless to say, those last four words were all the reporters needed.
That '70s Show:
In the episode "Eric's Birthday", when Laurie is asking Eric to borrow his car, and Kelso hears it as she was coming onto him. The thing is, Kelso's "interpretation" is practically a YouTube Poop, it's so mangled.
Eric: Aren't you a little cold?
Laurie: No, in fact I'm hot. Besides, it's not like I'm completely naked under this.
(later)
Eric: Okay, but I need a favor.
Laurie: For you? I don't think so.
Eric: I'll let you borrow the Vista Cruiser.
Laurie: All night.
Eric: All night?! ... Fine. Just tell Mom that I'm too old for surprise parties.
Laurie: But you're the baby, and Mommy loves her baby.
(Kelso hears:)
Laurie: I'm hot for you, Kelso. I'm completely naked under this. I want you, all night. And Mommy loves her baby.
In the episode "Jackie Bags Hyde", when Jackie wants a date with Hyde:
Hyde: I told you again and again, that I have no interest in you, and you don't have a chance! And yet, you keep thinking that I have interest in you, and you have a chance!
Jackie: Wait. Did you just say that you're interested in me and I have a chance?
Radio Active: In one episode, Roger is extolling the virtues of Mr Noseworthy over the radio. "Technical difficulties" (in the form of deliberate vandalism) renders his statement that, "In his field, competence knows no equal!" as "In...competence knows no equal."
Parodied in a segment on America's Funniest Home Videos. It showed clips of stage performances while Tom Bergeron "read" reviews of them and the Quote Mined version appeared on screen. The final review was so bad it was reduced to "The Happy Musical is... A show!"
The pilot of Even Stevens had Louis being an unwitting victim of this.
Done cleverly in Jonathan Creek, where a villain gets another villain to read out what's supposedly an account of an old legend, but is set up so when he tapes it and removes sections, it edits together to sound like a phone message—allowing the first villain to fake the second villain supposedly phoning someone after he has been murdered.
An episode of That's So Raven has Raven and Chelsea on a game show, where the producer pits the friends against each other by pulling this trick and editing the videos they had made about each other. For example, Raven said about Chelsea: "Chelsea is such a good friend, I would never want to lose her. And that's coming from the heart." It was edited down to "Chelsea is such a lose...er. And that's coming from the heart."
Story and sound editors for reality shows do this so regularly that they've named the result. They call it a "Frankenbite"; a soundbite stitched together like a Frankenstein's monster of mismatched parts.
Demonstrated on Frontline. An expert is asked about the possibility of someone surviving for weeks in the desert. He says "No way, it's impossible", before going on to explain why the woman in question could be an exception. The reporters edit this out.
In the early Columbo installment "Ransom for a Dead Man", a woman murders her husband and disguises it as a kidnapping. To create the impression of her husband being alive and in the custody of the imaginary kidnappers, she plays a cleverly edited recording of him over the phone.
In NewsRadio episode "The Real Deal", Bill McNeal attempts to score an interview with Jerry Seinfeld, who is dining by himself at a restaurant, only to fail spectacularly by pestering him. He resorts to taking the tape recording of their hostile exchange out of context, deliberately misrepresenting Jerry as an egotist.
An episode of Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers had an accidental version. Bulk is filming a video for a class project, but Skull's inept editing results in "That's Mrs. Appleby. She can't wait to teach her favorite student" becoming "That Mrs. Appleby can't teach." Since it's a video, you can see the jumps, but the class still has a good laugh.
In an episode of Victorious, some Hollywood guys setup a "Jersey Shore" type show with the Hollywood Arts Kids. When they edit two different conversations that Tori and Beck have with others to make it appear that they are having an affair, Jade isn't too happy. The producers freely admit the deception saying they're doing it for ratings.
On the September 12, 2012, installment of her self-titled talk show, Ellen DeGeneres quote-mined both President Obama and his opponent, Mitt Romney, to make nice political ads against the other. Seen here. So President Obama ended up saying, among other things, "Governor Romney ... drove my grandma to work." And Candidate Romney said, among other things, "President Obama ... won World War II."
In October-November 2013, she quote mined Alex Trebek for his "audition tape" for the lead role in film of Fifty Shades of Grey.
The most infamous example of this trope in documentary TV is Clash of the Dinosaurs. The incident in question was concerning a battle between the dromaeosaur Deinonychus and the sauropod Sauroposeidon, as well as twisting consultant Matt Wedel's words to make him say the old, disproven belief that sauropods had two brains, when he explicitly stated that the theory he claimed in the show was false. This stirred an absolute outrage among Wedel and his fellow palentologists on the blog SV-POW, of which Wedel wrote this about the subject. This also destroyed any credibility the production company (Dangerous Ltd) might have had. It also left them at the mercy of dinosaur fanatics, paleontologists and practically everybody who likes dinosaurs.
Done in-universe in an episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit. On an in-universe version of To Catch a Predator, a man comes into the room with the teenaged girl and tries immediately to convince her that this is not what she wants to do, and that any creep could show up and have his way with her. He tells her to get out of her skankly clothes and put something decent on; when the episode aired, this was edited down to him simply demanding sex from her and telling her to strip, and his life was ruined though he was never formally charged.
Conan features a recurring bit where Alex Trebek's voice on Jeopardy! is spliced to make him sound completely insane.
The show also does this to Dr. Phil with its Punxsutawney Dr. Phil character.
From the Nikita episode "One Way", an example of someone recognizing the Quote Mine (from The Qur'an, specifically) and supplying the next line, which destroys the Quote Miner's point:
Kasim Tariq: “Fight in God’s cause against those who fight against you.”
Michael: “But do not commit aggression.” You forgot that part of the Qur'an. If you’re going to twist its meaning at least quote the whole passage.
Happens to Gibbs in the NCIS episode "Model Behavior" to make it look like he's cutting an interview short because a reporter asked a potentially compromising question regarding an incident at a marine base. In reality, it was because the reporter spilled Gibbs' coffee.
The Joe Schmo Show generally avoided this as they wanted to present the Schmoes in a flattering, but still honest light. However, in Joe Schmo 2, they couldn't resist this with a line of Amanda Naughton's in the season finale: "I want money. I want lots of money," used in the promo. The full line, heard in context in the episode itself, was "I want money. I want lots of money. I'd love to live a very rich life, but not at the expense of somebody."
Used in The Newsroom when they cover the death of Trayvon Martin- Maggie makes the same cut that NBC did (as described in the Real Life section below). She claims that it didn't occur to her that removing the question about what race Trayvon was would have such an effect on the tone of the story and gets in quite a lot of trouble.
In the Mission: Impossible episode "The Elixir," the team edits a videotape of a dictator suspending free elections into an announcement of her immediate retirement instead.
Syfy parodies this in their advertisements by inverting it. They blatantly cut and paste their own shows to make it look like the characters are responding to critical praise.
See an actual scientist or historian on Ancient Aliens? Odds are that they're responding to a neutral question ("Did people once believe gods lived in the sky?") and that's cut in to make it look like it's providing additional support to what the Insane Troll Logic theory of the week is that episode. If they say something sounding like it's explicit support for the premise, odds are that the interview was cut off just before the interviewee said something essentially like "...and some people say that, but it is, of course, bullshit."
One early commercial plugging the GSN game show Idiotest plays this trope for laughs.
Announcer: The reviews are in, and the critics are raving! The New York Times calls it "...a new game show..."
Host Ben Gleib: Aces!
Announcer: The Boston Globe finds it "...on TV Tuesday night..."
Gleib: At least for you watching at home.
Announcer: OK! Magazine adds, "...at 9:00 p.m...."
Zondag Met Lubach: Played for laughs in a sketch where Lubach did a "time travel interview" with former Dutch attorney Bram Moskowicz, who was a major public figure before he was met with a rapid string of misfortunes in recent years, including being disbarred. The interview is carefully edited to make it seem like Moskowicz is responding to being informed of his own future failures, which gets plenty of Lampshade Hanging.
Mrs. America: Phyllis takes segments from feminist leaders' recorded speeches out of context, then puts them into a tape circulated to make them all look bad.
    Music 
Tim Minchin does this to himself in the song "Context". At first it is a song about how he hates various demographic groups, but when sung in full it is about how he hates people who do bad things, regardless of race:
I don't like Jews who make and distribute kiddie porn
Neither should you, they're ethically and spiritually poor, that's a fact
I don't like black people who risk billions of other people's money gambling on future derivatives
It's just not acceptable, there should be some kind of law, that is that.
    Mythology and Religion 
The Bible:
Psalm 14:1 says "The fool has said in his heart 'There is no God'". You often find it used in anti-atheist comments. Problem: the other half of the verse is "They are corrupt, their deeds are vile; there is no one who does good." The word translated "fool" means someone with no morals, not that people are idiots for not believing in God.
For that matter, people will sometimes respond to creationist quote-mining (see below) by facetiously truncating this even further to, “There is no God,” thereby demonstrating the fallacy of quote mining to people who may not understand what is wrong with it, since obviously the Bible isn’t ever arguing that God that does not exist.
Matthew 7:1-3. What people quote: "Judge not, lest ye be judged." What they mean: Stop telling me how to live my life based on your views.
Full quote: "Judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?" Two original meanings: 1) The standards you judge others by are the standards that will be applied to you. 2) Don't be a hypocrite.
Christians who quote the "eye for an eye" doctrine laid out in Exodus 20:22 are either conveniently forgetting or never learned the part of the Gospel of Matthew (specifically Matthew 5:38-40) where Jesus explicitly repudiated that passage (the "turn the other cheek" remark). See also "Vengeance is Mine, saith the Lord" (as in, not yours) in Deuteronomy 32:35 and Romans 12:19, and also Proverbs 20:22, which lays it out quite clearly:
"Do not take vengeance against evil, but wait for the Lord and He will avenge you."
In other words, not so much repudiated as saying, "It isn't for you to exact yourself, but a judge. And you may be better off waiting for The Judge, i.e., God." Also, the repayment of an eye is not itself an eye, but the value of an eye.
For an "in-universe" example, Satan quotes passages from Scripture out of context during his temptation of Jesus. Jesus doesn't fall for it, and responds with other quotes that prove Satan wrong.
One famous (mis)quote from the Bible is "Money is the root of all evil". The actual quote, from 1 Timothy 6:10 reads "For the love of money is the root of all evil; which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows". So, the Bible isn't saying money in and of itself is wicked. It's greed that is evil, because it causes people to do evil things.
Likewise, many verses of The Qur'an are often taken out of context or truncated. A good example is 5:32: "Whoever slays a soul, it is as though he slew all men; and whoever keeps it alive, it is as though he kept alive all men" is often brought to demonstrate how wrong the terrorists are. However, the full quotation is "For this reason [the murder of Abel] did We prescribe to the children of Israel that whoever slays a soul, unless it be for manslaughter or for mischief in the land, it is as though he slew all men; and whoever keeps it alive, it is as though he kept alive all men; and certainly Our messengers came to them with clear arguments, but even after that many of them certainly act extravagantly in the land." Not only is killing allowed as punishment for murder but also for those who commit "mischief in the land". And for the extremists, all misbelievers are committing mischief. They're also going by the older meaning of "mischief", which is far less light-hearted than what is meant today.
    Print Media 
In a Dave Barry column he describes a novel called "Romeo and Juliet 2", citing glowing reviews from a couple of completely insignificant newspapers, followed by a glowing review from the New York Times:
"...a recently published book!"
    Radio 
True Capitalist Radio THRIVES on this. It's the MO of most trolls to take anything and everything Ghost says and "splice" it out of context.
The BBC show Radio Active, a parody of commercial radio stations, did in one episode take the viewer on a tour "backstage" to visit writers, editors and producers. The editor decided to play first an unedited sound clip of a politician's passionate anti-racism speech, and then an edited one, so that the audience could hear "how the editing helps it."
Unedited version: Firstly, I am personally convinced that this government's immigration policy is crass and retarded, and anything they do, I say now, should be subject to the utmost skepticism and hopefully ignored. For example, in reality, I am sure the rights of a black man and woman with a large family are not properly guarded. I am driven mad by politicians and the like who believe such people should be simply regarded as a family of social outcasts and deported at the earliest opportunity! Get rid of racism, and believe me, the world will be a better place!
Edited version: Firstly, I am personally crass and retarded, and anything I say should be subject to the utmost skepticism and hopefully ignored. For example, in reality, I am a black woman with a large family. I am mad, and should be regarded as a social outcast and deported at the earliest opportunity! Get rid of me, the world will be a better place!
    Theatre 
A (usually) unintentional example, but people often quote Polonius' line from Hamlet "Brevity is the soul of wit", and assume it's meant as advice to the reader/viewer for how to tell jokes (typically such people have never read/seen the play and just know about the famous line). While it is good advice in many situations (as people may get bored if you take way too long to get to the punchline, for one) the character in question is anything but brief or witty, and delivers the line right before going on a long, rambling monologue. In other words, it was meant as a bit of Hypocritical Humor, not actual advice for telling jokes.
    Video Games 
In Beyond Good & Evil, the government's propaganda machine removes the "not exactly" from Pey'j's "Yeah, well, you guys are not exactly what I'd call as fast as a speedin' bullet" for a radio broadcast.
Kane & Lynch did this with their ads, getting quotes from previews and presenting them as review quotes.
Max Payne 2 did the same, plastering a line from a preview on the box and every ad for the game. The writer of said preview called them on this a few months after release, pointing out that actual reviews of the actual finished game had plenty of glowing quotes that could have been used in its place, while also noting he'd said similar nice things in previews for games that turned out to be completely terrible, like Daikatana.
'"A breathtaking, original ballet of death." That's the quote. I came up with it while writing CGW's Max Payne 2 cover story a few months ago, and now, because the catchphrase gurus at Rockstar Games decided that "So much like the first game, you may not notice the difference!" might not be the most effective selling point, everywhere I look, those hyperbolic words come back to haunt me. Every friggin' ad for the game, be it in game magazines, general-interest magazines, gaming websites, www.hotcoedshower.com—even the godforsaken game box—has that one single line pulled out as a glowing endorsement of this game. For me, the month following the release of this game has felt like this: A breathtaking, original ballet of death. A breathtaking, original ballet of death. A breathtaking, original ballet of death.
But here's the thing—the litter of money pigs encouraging you to line their feeding trough with your dollars is using a line from a preview as if it were from a review, twisting optimistic early speculation and presenting it as if it were a glowing endorsement of the final product. Now, you might think I'm splitting hairs, but there is a huge difference here: it's the difference between commenting on a baby's ultrasound and the finished product. "Beautiful and full of possibility!" can easily turn into "Two heads means double the kisses!" when that joyous bundle is finally released.
Fate/stay night has one infamous example, though the "mine" part comes from the audience rather than in-universe. Thanks to fans taking a line out of context, Shirou's entire character is now defined by the line "People die if they are killed". You essentially have to play the game yourself to realize he's not just making a Captain Obvious statement for no reason, but that the infamous line is followed up by him noting that dying when you're killed is "the way things should be".
This article argues that many of the infamous comments from Activision CEO Bobby Kotick are taken out of context, such as by presenting jokes as completely literal or misinterpreting financial terms as emotive language.
A puzzle in Where In Time Is Carmen Sandiego involves doing this using Thomas Edison's wax cylinder. The player has to gather parts for the new light bulb prototype, and one of them is a spool of thread. Guess which part of the following phone conversation you have to quote-mine...
"Listen, Bob. Do NOT (beat) give those rascals a spool of thread! Tell them to come back in the morning when we're open!"
Parodied on the website for McPixel, where many review quotes are either in a foreign language, or mined until they're nothing but complete nonsense.
A magazine advertisement for the video game adaptation of the Sylvester Stallone movie Cliffhanger quoted one reviewer as saying that "Cliffhanger may push gamers over the edge!" However, the reviewer was saying it in the context of how frustrating and annoying the game was. The clincher? That review was in the same issue of the magazine as the advertisement.
Call of Duty: Black Ops and its sequels use a form of this at the start of each level. The Title In at the start of each level in the first includes much more than it would in, say, Modern Warfare, stating why the player is where he is, who else is with him, the exact time of day, and whatnot. Then, once the full text has appeared, a line crosses through everything except the date, player character's name, and location as is shown in other games. From the first mission, for instance:
Transmission# 15-18. Designate: X-RAY
OP 40 team inserted with Bay of Pigs forces in Cuba
Target: Fidel Castro
Woods, Bowman, and Mason meeting contact at Santa Maria
0500 hrs April 17, 1961
Black Ops 3 uses a variant, where each mission starts out over a black screen with small scrolling text at the bottom from a post-mission write-up. As the text is scrolled through and repeated, random words within it are highlighted and copied over to the corner of the screen for a rather descriptive title-in à la the first Black Ops... and then, like it, everything but the name of the level, who you're with, the location, and the date are erased:
Encryption Enabled. Protocol: Oscar.
Winslow Accord Black Ops team approved for mission
Mission: Retrieve Egyptian prime minister held in Ethiopia
Team: Classified
Date: 21:00Hrs Oct 27th 2065
Gabriel Knight uses tape-splicing to achieve this in The Beast Within, using his recording of his questions with Herr Doktor Klingmann to convince zookeeper Tomas to allow Gabriel to see the zoo wolves up close.
Parodied and inverted on the Steam store page for Undertale. The "Reviews" section contains nothing but negative comments, all sourced to reviews that were actually quite positive and gave the game a perfect 10 rating.
Ikutsuki of Persona 3 does this to a recording left behind by Eiichiro Takeba, Yukari's father. His original recording was a warning that the Arcana Shadows should not be destroyed. By editing the recording, Ikutsuki is able to manipulate SEES into destroying the Shadows, which ultimately brings forth The Fall.
Medal of Honor: Airborne has a variation to supply the names for the missions. Each already has one name, usually in Operation: [Blank] format as in the real battles in question, but they also have a second name that comes from a quote displayed to the player before gameplay begins. For instance, mission 1, Operation Husky, starts with a quote from Benjamin Franklin imagining the idea of paratroopers, wondering who could possibly be prepared to defend their country in such a way that "...10,000 men descending from the clouds might not in many places do an infinite deal of mischief". The mission itself, as such, is titled "Infinite Mischief".
The Jackbox Party Pack 4 has the game "Survive the Internet", which is all about taking others' words out of context. In each round, all the players answer a question, then other players' take their responses and put them in a context where that response would be embarrassing, defaming, or otherwise inappropriate, then all the players vote on the funniest response.
    Webcomics 
Dominic Deegan features a Trickster elementalist who literally rearranges quotes from characters by catching "words on the wind" in a bottle in order to have them say something completely different from what they'd meant. It doesn't work on Luna since she's skilled enough at magic to realize that the words were rearranged.
This Cectic provides an excellent example.
Henchgirl: Parodies this trope with A Super Family: A Memoir being reviewed as, "A...near-perfect example of...what...to do...when writing...a...book...Great" - BB Bowl, The AV Clob.
Precocious: Ursula accidentally does this to herself here due to a case of Is This Thing On?.
The fact that this trope happens is the basis of a quick pre-interview lesson in Schlock Mercenary:
Ennesby: You might say "Protesters were out in force, but my men used restraint, and no civilians were injured." What actually airs might be "My men used force, and civilians were injured." Of course, they won't need to chop your sentences up that much to incriminate us.
Captain Tagon: It's not too late to kill that anchorman, is it?
Ennesby: Case in point.
    Web Original 
Yahtzee occasionally spoofs this by giving a long list of reasons he dislikes something and ending it with a quasi-positive statement, while displaying only the last few words on the screen, as if it were an endorsement. For example, while he says, "...if you've got a love of repetitive tactical combat that borders on the fetishistic, and you really badly need to know what happens next to faceless characterless protagonist of the ongoing storyline then I heartily recommend Perseus Mandate" shows only the last five words on the screen.
Stephen Colbert invited fans to do this in the Edit Challenge. Footage of an interview was posted on the internet, deliberately providing material that could be edited into something less innocent. For example, "I love cock-fighting." The results can be found on YouTube.
The Daily Show and The Colbert Report are also frequently accused of using the technique themselves — Bill O'Reilly complained that one clip of him apparently contradicting himself had "eight out-of-context edits" within a few seconds.
The war in Iraq: Three years, one speech.
A staple of YouTube Poop is to take innocuous sources, such as a video game cutscene or children's cartoon, and remix the dialogue judiciously for the lulz. Often called "sentence mixing" by the fandom.
The callers on Ghost's online radio show that claims to be about Capitalism do this with his own voice. This leads to much lulz, and the host getting incredibly angry over the embarrassing things they've made him say. It's not just re-edited audio, though; he has, indeed, said some very mineable quotes without any editing.
"I always walk around here in Texas... uh, with my strap on..."
Mitt Romney advocates children in half, Obama comments on the sad state of Youtube Poops.
Byron Hall and someone identifying himself only as "Burnout" counter-reviewed Jason Sartin and Darren MacLennan's infamous review of FATAL; it was rather hilarious and sad. Sad because it would appear that Hall and Burnout's myriad counts of quote mining appear to have been from genuinely understanding the remarks being mined the way they ended up mining them. They also appear to think that reviewing while still being entertaining is somehow unprofessional, so we have the rather hilarious image of a guy who created a game with rules about rape (any rules about rape, if you're reading this, Hall) trying to take the moral high ground over a couple guys who listed hitting yourself in the scrotum with a tack hammer as an activity preferable to playing FATAL.
Obama Admits He Is A Muslim. The whole thing is a quote mine. Some people won't listen to logic.
Cassetteboy uses this in their approach to plunderphonics, making them veritable masters at it. Watch as they tear apart BBC News and put it together in their own fashion.
And then there's this utterly brutal yet hilarious mashup of the party leaders' speeches, resulting in an unsavoury picture of David Cameron's schooldays:
Miliband: I wanna tell you my story. Fourteen-year-old David Cameron's not going to school. He drank two whole bottles of brandy. And then what did he do?
Cameron: I would score a line from drug dealers, play computer games all day and beat off in my childhood bedroom.
Parodied in this Lasagna Cat video, in relation to the Garfield Live Action Adaptations. After a straight quote from Roger Ebert's positive reviews of both movies, the video begins quote mining from other, more negative reviews. The quotes start out saying nice things about the movies, then become vague, then scathing, then outright ridiculous.
Troper Ronka 87 did a liveblog of Dingo Pictures' Mockbuster Anastasia. Her hyperbolic, vitriolic summation of the movie was then put on the company's quotes page, where troper Willy Four Eyes quote mined it to hilarious effect here.
Delete Censorship's intro shows what can come from quote mining the First Amendment.
An online promotional video NBC created for Parks and Recreation features a short clip of April saying, "I love Ritalin and have low self-esteem." In the actual episode, April was mocking her sister rather than talking about herself.
The Sonic fan-animation Nazo Unleashed uses this in a very interesting way. Nazo is the only character in the series who has newly recorded dialogue; every other character has dialogue made up of voice clips from various Sonic games, carefully edited to make it sound professional. This is one of the secrets behind the series' popularity.
The Cracked article "5 Despicable Things People Do for Good Online Reviews" lists this practice under #2.
In this article by David Wong: "Hitler was right" and "Hitler...was saving the world".
Submission.info, a website on Islam, frequently directly calls out Islamic radicals on quote-mining The Qur'an. Among other things this page notes that, in context, a line from 4:101 purportedly saying that unbelievers are the enemy is actually an innocuous statement that it's okay to be practical and cut your daily prayers short if you expect attack.
The Wiiviewer suspects that the "...8 out of 10" quote from Play magazine that appears on the front cover of the Nintendo Wii game Furu Furu Park is this, given the overall quality of the game.
The second season of The Black Tapes opens with paranormal skeptic Dr. Richard Strand accusing host Alex Regan of misrepresenting him in this way, citing her leaving out revisions he made to an initial statement or omitting everything he said to try and explain a specific case. Alex justifies her decisions as judgement calls made to keep views balanced and leaving out instances of Strand being too didactic by either leaving too much room for coincidence or having "logical explanations" she felt were just as far-fetched as any paranormal theory would be.
The Game Grumps joked about this a few times, remarking that if they pissed off their editor Barry he'd cut their audio together into something embarrassing. Of course, both times they've made this joke Barry instead turned their quotes into something totally innocuous: in Super Mario Sunshine he cuts together a little speech about ducks while in Super Mario 3D World he makes the Grumps say "I super-love Barry".
A variant occurred once when Jon tried to say "I need Barry to add something" but got interrupted at "I need Barry—." Barry's text at the bottom replied "I need you too, Jon."
    Western Animation 
The Simpsons:
There was an episode where Marge writes a book, at one point the publishers phone different authors to get quotes for the cover. Tom Clancy's Repeating So the Audience Can Hear is his downfall:
"Would I say, 'If you're hunting for a good read this October, Marge Simpson's book is a Clear and Present Danger to your free time'? Hell no I wouldn't. What do you mean I just said it? That doesn't count! Hello. Hello?"
In the season 6 episode "Homer Badman", Homer was accused of sexual harassment and went on a talk show to give his side of the story. The interview that aired cut up his comments to make it sound like he was admitting guilt... then apparently starts taking his anger out on the host. It was done in an incredibly obvious and poor fashion as well, with really obvious jumps and things changing in the background — and people still bought it. Those things included a very prominent clock which jumps around between hours, despite the whole interview taking minutes, and the "taking his anger out on the host" is a freeze frame of Homer with a confused look on his face. Then at the end, when the show has to broadcast a correction, they show it so fast it was almost a Blipvert.
What Homer actually said: Well, somebody had to take the babysitter home, then I noticed she was sitting on the Gummi Venus, so I grabbed it off her. Ohhhh... just thinking about that sweet, sweet candy, ahhh... I just wish I had another one right now!
What they broadcast: Well, somebody had to take the babysitter home, then I noticed she was sitting on—her—sweeet can—so I grabbed—her—sweeet can—ohhhh, just thinking about—her—can—I just wish I had—her—sweet, sweet—s-s-s-sweet can...
"Critics say this book is 'definitely' dot-dot-dot 'useful!'" —Marge Simpson, on a self-help book.
In one episode of House of Mouse, Mortimer suggests that the winner of a volleyball game will be the one to ask Minnie out. Mickey makes the mistake of replying "So, what, we should treat Minnie like she's some sort of trophy?!" Mortimer then relays this sentence back to Minnie later, while of course leaving out that it was rhetorical. Mickey is so flustered by Mortimer revealing this that he can only stammer in response. (On the other hand, Mortimer DID manage to tempt Mickey into the volleyball game, but it was still Mortimer's idea in the first place.)
Steven Universe: The magic mirror in "Mirror Gem" is only able to play back what it's witnessed, so it cuts together recordings to communicate. At first it simply pulls entire quotes and replays them in different contexts, but as Steven spends more time with it, it starts to splice together several people's words to make unique sentences.
Fairly Oddparents
In "The Boy Who Would Be Queen", Timmy tries to figure out a gift Trixie would like. Cosmo mockingly suggests he could only figure it out if he used a wish to make himself a girl. Both laugh at the idea so obnoxiously that Wanda goes ahead and does it anyway, justifying herself with some very selective hearing of Timmy's line "Like I'd wish I was a girl!"
In "The Switch Glitch", Vicky blackmails Timmy with a recording where he introduces himself, then a clearly different voice says "[I] cheated on my math test". Timmy's reply, "What? I never cheated on my math test!" becomes "I... cheated on my math test!". After turning Vicky even younger than him, Timmy turns the tables on her with the same tactic, making a fake recording where she says "I... stole from my mom's purse!" He does it again to resolve the plot by having Vicky read "I'm happy and I don't need my Fairy Godparents anymore" off of a note.
In one Wunschpunsch episode the spell of the week made everyone hate everyone. The only way to break it was to make someone say "I love you". To achieve that, the two main characters found the love interest of one of them. The Raven asked her "What do you think of me?" while the Cat hid somewhere with a tape recorder. She answered with a rain of insults, Cat quickly paused and unpaused the recording so that it, when played back, finally said the needed words.
In an ad for The Amazing World of Gumball, the title character splices together footage of his friends and peers to make it seem as if they are praising him:
"Gumball... is the most... amazing... DUDE!... I don't have time... to say all the good things... abooooout... this... amazing... DUDE!"
In Dan Vs. "Elise's Parents", Dan uses a hidden tape recorder to record a conversation with Elise's father, Don, about his cupcake business. He then edits it to make it sound like Don's in the mafia so that the police will get involved, freeing up Chris for the renaissance fair.
Blatantly parodied in My Gym Partner's a Monkey when Jake joins the school newspaper group. He then proceeds to persuade Adam to say some very embarassing things (" What? No, I'm not in love with her! I'm pretty sure she's crazy!"). Adam finds out about this and simply stops talking to Jake. Not one to be deterred, Jake simply starts making things up., and the student body believe him. So, to get revenge and hopefully stop this stupidity, Adam joins the school newspaper and starts making up incredibly embarrassing stories about Jake...which actually turn out to be true. The entire student body then start asking why he'd do such a mean thing to his friend Jake.
In the My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic episode "The Mysterious Mare Do Well", Spike does this when he's writing Rainbow Dash's "autobiography":
Applejack: And she's modest and humble. She lets her actions speak for themselves. Gotta admire that.
Rainbow Dash: I don't have to admire that! I don't think she's all that great!
Spike: She's... great.
Rainbow Dash: I didn't say that.
Adventure Time: One episode has Finn and Jake discovering pre-recorded tapes left by their father. By the end of the episode, they found all the tapes, and Jake starts doing some Manipulative Editing.
"Boys, I made you something—it's babies. Full of babies. —the family sword. It's made out of—babies."
Cartoon Network began using these as promotional bumps during commercial breaks, throwing together single words from just about every show they have before ending on an unexpected punch line.
Random Characters: If.. You're... Happy... And... You... Know... It.
Benson: GET BACK TO WORK!!!
And
Random Characters: If.. You're... Happy... And... You... Know... It.
Jake: Go sit in the corner, and think about your life.
In "Invitation to the Snooties" on PB&J Otter, the Snootie poodle kids pull this off to great effect to trick their father into letting them have something they want for their birthday party.
Eduardo: Who ordered that? Huh?
Bootsie: You told us we could have it, Daddy. Don't you remember?
Bootsie: (on tape) Can we have a giant 28-foot ice cream frog?
Ootsie: That sings Yankee Doodle?
Eduardo: (on the tape, but from a conversation he had with someone else over the phone) Absolutely, that's a capital idea. (to Ootsie and Bootsie) Huh, well so I did.
South Park: After Isaac Hayes left the show, there was an episode titled "The Return of Chef" in which Chef is brainwashed by the "Super Adventure Club" and becomes a crazy, boy-hungry pedophile. Chef's dialog in the episode is entirely stitched together from Hayes' past recordings, but while he was brainwashed it was intentionally done in a clumsy, stilted manner to show that something was wrong with him. After the boys manage to free Chef from the mind control his dialog is still edited clips, but the quality is much better. This was in reference to Tray Parker and Matt Stone's belief that the Church of Scientology either forced Hayes to quit or else quit "for" him, since up to that point he'd never complained about the show's content.
In an episode of American Dad!, Steve and Hayley try to break up a couple because they have crushes on the people involved. In order to do this, they call up the girl with a phone telephone survey, then use Stan's CIA equipment to edit the audio, then call the boy and play a fake message that makes it sound like his girlfriend is meeting another guy in the park.
Nat Smurfling does this to Selwyn during his fight with his wife Tallulah in The Smurfs episode "Memory Melons" to record a simple "I love you" message for Tallulah in Selwyn's own words. Ironically, the quote mined message was the original message Selwyn intended to say to his wife all along.
Superman: The Animated Series: Angela Chen does this to Jimmy Olsen during "Superman's Pal." The poor kid suspects nothing, but the next morning the manipulated 'interview' finds its way onto TV.
In the final episode of Beast Wars, Megatron mocks Optimus Primal's attempts to stop him by quoting the Codex of Primus, which stated that "the hero would not prevail". Optimus reminds Megatron of the rest of the quote, "...nor would he surrender!"
In the Archer episode "Viscous Coupling", the title character tries a complicated Quote Mining ploy to win back his old girlfriend, Katya. Her boyfriend, Barry, is stuck on a space station; she asks Archer (a famed spy) to save him. To break them up, Archer enlists his scientist friend Dr. Krieger and records his and Barry's conversations about rocketing back home. He manipulates them to sound like admissions of infidelity:
Barry's voice: Archer...I am...screwing...female...scientists up here...all of them?
Notably, while Katya cries at this "revelation", she is faking. She used Archer's affection to make him save Barry note , and mocks the attempt at Quote Mining as "pathetic".
In the Star Wars: The Clone Wars episode "Duchess of Mandalore", a recording from a deceased Mandalorian representative is presented in the Senate as a call for aid from the Republic to help Mandalore, which would violate the planet's oath of neutrality in the war and give the local terrorist group, Death Watch, a pretense to bring the planet back to its old ways (and then join the Separatists). Duchess Satine knows something is off with the recording based on what she knows of the representative's character, but can't prove it immediately due to his death. When she gets her hands on the original recording and has it presented through Padme (due to Satine being falsely accused of murdering her informant), it is shown that the representative was trying to make a case for why Mandalore doesn't need Republic intervention to deal with Death Watch. If one looks at both recordings carefully, you can tell where it was quote-mined (and the recording was apparently edited carefully to avoid showing splices in audio).
Sonic Boom: In "Eggman: The Video Game", Eggman attempts to break into the video game market and decides a strong motion-capture fight between Sonic and Shadow will give him the data he needs to make it pop. But since Shadow was still sore with Eggman costing him his last fight with Sonic, Eggman instead records himself asking a few questions to Sonic and then edits them together to make it look like Sonic is insulting Shadow. It's very poorly done, but Shadow falls for it anyway.
    Real Life 
Opponents of abortion and birth control sometimes combine a Quote Mine with a Hitler Ate Sugar, attempting to "prove" that Planned Parenthood is racist because Margaret Sanger once said "We do not want word to get out that we are trying to exterminate the Negro population." The reason she didn't want that word to get out is that, well, that wasn't what she was trying to do in the first place. The quote was from a conversation with a popular minister in a black community and was about finding ways to extend her services to black women who wanted them without being suspected of specifically targeting a group of people for elimination. Many other people who wanted to provide birth control for African Americans wanted to do so to limit their population growth — when Sanger said that, she was saying that she didn't want people to think that because this time it wasn't true. The quote is used to accuse her of exactly what she was trying to avoid being accused of. It's true that she was (like most people then) somewhat racist and supported eugenics (which was more-or-less mainstream science back then). Regardless of this, her own accounts say she had first advocated birth control after seeing women die from illegal abortions. Eugenics came later. It is simply an association fallacy to use her views against the Planned Parenthood of today.
This routinely happens in political campaigns, and candidates routinely accuse their opponents of doing this, whether or not they do. There's no way to make a 30-second commercial that gives all the context to any statement; if candidate A makes an ad about candidate B's gaffe, B is certain to say it was taken out of context.
One of the more infamous quote-mines to come out in the 2010 Congressional election was the Democratic candidate Alan Grayson portraying his Florida opponent as "Taliban Dan" Webster, by showing (repeatedly in one commercial) Webster saying "She will submit to me" in reference to his wife... except he was talking about not picking and choosing biblical text to follow, using that as an example.
Al Gore is commonly characterized by his opponents as a pompous self-aggrandizer, with the most common accusation being that he claimed to have invented the Internet. The actual quote is "I took the initiative in creating the internet." In context, he's talking about his time as a senator when he championed and funded ARPANet, the government network that eventually became the internet.
After George Zimmerman shot Trayvon Martin, NBC News ran a piece with the 911 call from Zimmerman with a sound bite of him saying "He looks up to no good. He looks black". In actuality he said "he looks up to no good", says that was looking around alone in the rain, and only mentioned Martin's race when the 911 operator asked him "Is he white, black, or Hispanic?". NBC claimed that this was unintentional, as if there was any way to accidentally delete specific audio from the middle of a police recording. Zimmerman sued them for it, but the damage was already done.
Afghan parliamentary representative Malalai Joya was removed from her office using this trick, after a television interview was cut to make it seem she had insulted the entire political body, when in reality she had simply ridiculed warlords among the officials. To top it off, the whole 'insulting the government being against the law' thing wasn't even a law yet. She still wasn't invited back.
J. Robert Oppenheimer is often quoted saying, "I am become death, destroyer of worlds," quoting the Bhagavad Gita, as if to indicate that he felt the Manhattan Project were a mistake. In context, he makes it clear that the quote was in reference to doing your duty, even if it was unpleasant (this is more or less the whole point of the Gita; it's Krishna's quasi-pep talk to Arjuna in the Mahabharata, explaining that everyone has a role in the order of the Universe, and sometimes that role is the unpleasant business of killing loads of people for the good of everyone else). Actually, he was one of very few scientists who didn't think it was a mistake. When asked about deploying the bomb, a small council including Oppenheimer and Fermi asserted that it was required while the majority of the scientists disagreed. Those scientists weren't on that council.
Former Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's attack ads aimed at Liberal Party leader Michael Ignatieff include the quote "No one speaks for the Liberal Party of Canada, but me", which was clearly taken out of context from when he was trying to establish his credibility as the leader of the party, though it is presented with the intent of making Ignatieff seem like a control freak. Harper himself is noted by analysts as having won his position by means of his extremely tight control of the Conservative spin machine. The pot calling the kettle black?
A more meta example: there was a certain period of Imperial China—namely that of Spring and Autumn and that of Warring States—when diplomatic language relied on quote mining from a certain collection of poems.
Attempted (failed) positive example: on the Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial, a quote was mashed up into "I was a drum major for justice, peace and righteousness." The problem: it was a rhetorical device from a sermon against self-aggrandizement.
On the day of a massive public-sector strike, Jeremy Clarkson was booked on BBC's The One Show in which he made comments that he would execute strikers...as part of a joke about the BBC's legally-required neutrality. Clarkson himself was pretty neutral on the strikes. Of course, everyone latched onto the joke acting as if, for once, he were being serious.
Apart from Number 10, which issued a statement saying: "Those who have made the regrettable decision to strike may be assured: Executions are not government policy."
Quote mining scientists is such a popular tactic of creationists that many prominent biologists deliberately word their lectures and publications in ways to make quote mining more difficult. Also, given that the people who initially carry out the quote mining know what they're saying is a deliberate misrepresentation, it's given rise to the Liars for Jesus meme.
A common tactic by creationists is to quote mine On the Origin of Species, specifically, the part where Charles Darwin talks about how absurd it seems that the eye could have evolved. The quote mine is leaving out the second paragraph, wherein he explains exactly why eye evolution is perfectly reasonable.
The Quote Mine: "To suppose that the eye, with all its inimitable contrivances for adjusting the focus to different distances, for admitting different amounts of light, and for the correction of spherical and chromatic aberration, could have been formed by natural selection, seems, I freely confess, absurd in the highest possible degree." (Discussed here.)
The immediately following context: "Yet reason tells me, that if numerous gradations from a perfect and complex eye to one very imperfect and simple, each grade being useful to its possessor, can be shown to exist; if further, the eye does vary ever so slightly, and the variations be inherited, which is certainly the case; and if any variation or modification in the organ be ever useful to an animal under changing conditions of life, then the difficulty of believing that a perfect and complex eye could be formed by natural selection, though insuperable by our imagination, can hardly be considered real. How a nerve comes to be sensitive to light, hardly concerns us more than how life itself first originated; but I may remark that several facts make me suspect that any sensitive nerve may be rendered sensitive to light, and likewise to those coarser vibrations of the air which produce sound."
The broad strokes of the evolution of the eye are now widely understood, to the point where most of it is settled science. This particular quote mine is so infamous that even creationist sites like Answers In Genesis advise against using it.
Similarly, a passage from The Descent of Man is often victim to this particular brand of cheating, with the words being spliced to make it seem as though Darwin is advocating the extermination of the disabled (he argued for them to be treated equally instead).
The Creation museum in San Diego features a placard near the entrance on how science is compatible with religion, with a quote from Isaac Asimov: "I don't have the evidence to prove that God doesn't exist". Surprising that they resorted to quote mining for something as inconsequential as that, given the number of actual scientists they could have quoted legitimately, and given that Asimov's quote on the subject in full concluded with: "but I so strongly suspect that he doesn't that I don't want to waste my time."
"F. Scott Fitzgerald was wrong when he wrote 'there are no second acts in American lives.'" No, anyone who uses that sentence is the one who's wrong. Fitzgerald didn't mean that Americans don't get second chances. He was talking about the classical three-act dramatic structure. He was saying that Americans are impatient and prefer to go straight from conflict (act 1) to resolution (act 3) without deliberation (act 2), which, as anyone who has ever met a New Yorker or LA resident can tell you, is true.
Rudyard Kipling's opening line from The Ballad of East and West: "never the twain shall meet'' is often used to mean that two things or people are so different that they can never exist together or agree with each other. In fact Kipling meant the complete opposite, as the third and fourth lines say that while two geographic points of the compass will never meet, when two strong men meet, the accidents of birth or nationality or race do not matter at all, and the two men are equal. The entire poem is an argument against the idea.
Too often used by New Agers against people who call them out. Not only will they take the words, they sometimes even change the pronouns to make it seem that the opponents are admitting to being unscrupulous. At others, they have inserted sentences that readers are supposed to believe were in the original. The differences in grammar, punctuation, spelling, and style are usually obvious to anyone without a vested interest in the doctrines.
During the height of Mobile Suit Gundam Wing’s popularity in America, the Yaoi Fangirl crowd gleefully quote-mined an interview where director Masashi Ikeda said he didn't write a romance between the show's male and female leads Heero and Relena, citing it as proof that Heero was gay. However, this completely ignores everything else Ikeda said, including that he thought the overarching plot was more important than any romance, admitting that he can't write romance and calling it a personal fault, and saying that he could definitely see Heero and Relena getting together after the war had ended.
In his "QT" column, Zay N. Smith often plays this for laughs by obviously and blatantly misquoting political figures (Rush Limbaugh is a favorite target):
“I rise today in support of...demagoguery...and...a lot of misinformation...and...denied benefits...for...people who need it most...”
Shirley Sherrod lost her job at the US Department of Agriculture when a speech she gave in front of the NAACP regarding finding commonality with a white farmer who came to her for help was shown in edited forms that only highlighted her initial negative reaction to the farmer. Fortunately, after realizing that they were duped, the Department offered Sherrod her old job backnote , and Sherrod pursued legal action against Breitbart which posted the edited videos.
Neo-Nazis love to quote John F. Kennedy as having said, "within a few years Hitler will emerge from the hatred that surrounds him now as one of the most significant figures who ever lived...he had a mystery about him in the way that he lived and in the manner of his death that will live and grow after him. He had in him the stuff of which legends are made." You'll notice the "..." where they conveniently left out the part where Kennedy mentioned in the same breath that Hitler had also been, "a menace to the peace of the world."note 
During the 2012 US presidential election, President Barack Obama was quoted as saying "If you've got a business, you didn't build that!", and the Republican party quickly latched onto it as an attack against American individualism, making "We built it!" their 2012 national convention's Catch Phrase. The line was actually part of a larger speech in which Obama explained why wealthy citizens should pay higher taxes.
Obama: There are a lot of wealthy, successful Americans who agree with me, because they want to give something back. They know they didn't, look, if you've been successful, you didn't get there on your own...if you were successful, somebody along the line gave you some help. There was a great teacher somewhere in your life. Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen.
FBI Director James Comey was fired based on a memo from Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein which does this heavily. Immediately after a reference to Comey's July 2016 press conference where he announced that he would not seek charges against Hillary Clinton, the memo quotes many former White House officials saying that Comey's "decision" was a mistake and showed bad judgment. Most of those people were not referring to that press conference, but to Comey's later decision to announce the finding of more e-mails, which was widely believed to sway voters away from Hillary in the final week of the campaign. That was the official reason, anyway. According to Comey he was fired for unrelated reasons and the whole affair is now the subject of multiple official inquiries.
During the Amazon and Hachette dispute over e-book prices, Amazon ran afoul of George Orwell's estate when its attack post against Hachette compared the dispute to the publishers' fight with Penguin Books over the then-new paperback format, and quoted Orwell as calling for its abolition by saying, "if publishers had any sense, they would combine against them and suppress them." The full quote runs: "The Penguin books are splendid value for sixpence, so splendid that if other publishers had any sense they would combine against them and suppress them." In other words, it was an ironic comment supporting the paperback format, not opposing it. The irony of twisting Orwell's words around in a similar way to the Ministry of Truth in his novel 1984 was pointed out not only by the estate, but by anyone even remotely familiar with him.
Some atheists, agnostics and humanists, including Bill Maher, like to quote John Adams' as saying "This would be the best of all possible worlds, if there were no religion in it.", which was actually a sarcastic comment.
Adams: Twenty times in the course of my late reading have I been on the point of breaking out, "This would be the best of all possible worlds, if there were no religion in it!!!" But in this exclamation I would have been as fanatical as [Lemuel] Bryant or [Joseph] Cleverly. Without religion this world would be something not fit to be mentioned in polite company, I mean Hell.
Due to the rather divisive opinions about him in the west, Karl Marx is probably second only to Jesus Christ for most quote-mined man in history:
Some communists recite the bare bones of the "historical materialist" theory like it's divine gospel, while anti-Marxists deride it as a cult-like belief system. Marx, however, considered it merely a guideline for European historical analysis, nothing more. He rejected teleological interpretations and especially warned against exporting it to under-industrialized countries that couldn't sustain it, though he wrote that in the third part of the Communist Manifesto, "Socialist and Communist Literature", and after the hot spicy bourgeois-on-proletariat action of the first two chapters, everybody's too worn out to read what sounds like a book review.
The infamous "opium of the masses" quote is often used as a justification to abolish religion by force. Whereas in its original context, it meant that the cruelty of the world fueled the desire for the hope religion offers, and that if that cruelty is removed, religion will gradually fade away of its own accord. It's also relevant that opioids were used medicinally at the time, and still are: it could be interpreted to mean that religion is necessary in small doses as, effectively, pain relief, but if overdosed or abused, it can wreak havoc.
"Abolition of the family!" is a line from the Communist Manifesto that is often quoted out of context as proof of an anti-family agenda, whereas it's actually a paraphrase of his critics. He and Engels go on to say they are against the family as an economic relationship for private gain, not that they want to take everybody's kids away (except for a little thing we now call "public education").
His invectives against private property are often quote-mined to "prove" that he wanted to take away everything that you personally own (or, in the case of some communist regimes, that everything you own should be taken away). What isn't quoted is the part of the "Communist Manifesto" wherein he and Engels explain that private property refers only to the means of production, i.e. factories, and that they fully support people personally owning the products of those factories.
"Dictatorship of the proletariat" is often taken to mean a literal dictatorship by a Communist party, but in The Civil War in France it's explained as merely an armed militia of the working class who very clearly express their wishes to their elected officials (which Marx was in favor of), not dissimilar to the idea behind the Second Amendment in the United States.
A very common quote mine specific to Germany is to use Ernst Reuter's supposed quote (translated): "People of the world, look at this city[...]." and showing some random achievement and shots of Berlin for the propaganda...ahem, documentary purpose of supporting whatever supposedly positive thing the Western powers did after World War II. The full quote goes: "People of the world, look at this city and realize that you cannot and must not sell out this city and this people", which was criticizing plans of whatever was supposed to happen to Germany and Berlin in particular, as one such plan involved turning Germany into de-industrialized grasslands.
Writer A.A. Dowd details his experience being quote mined in this editorial. The back of the Canadian DVD for Accidental Love quotes him saying that the film is "A comedic masterstroke." The actual quote in context from his C- review was: "To be fair to whoever refashioned Accidental Love from the abandoned scraps of Nailed, there’s little reason to believe that the ideal, untroubled version of the material would have been a comedic masterstroke." The editorial also goes into detail in examining how taking snippets from negative reviews and re-purposing them as an endorsement hurts everyone involved - if someone takes the mined quote at face value and watches a movie they end up thinking is terrible on the reviewer's "recommendation", they'll stop trusting that reviewer, who in turn won't be able to get those people to go watch films they actually endorse, thus leading to those films making less money.
A promotional poster for Legend (2015) managed to do this with a star rating: The poster depicts its stars, Tom Hardy and Tom Hardy, standing in front of positive ratings for the movie...but apparently they couldn't quite find enough four- or five-star ratings to make the effect symmetrical enough, so they slipped in a two-star review from The Guardian by positioning it in such a way that it looked like 4 or 5 stars partially blocked by the two Hardys in the foreground. The reviewer remarked, "Incredible way of making my two-star review seem like I didn't hate the film."
In 2015, David Cameron (and previously The Sun) attempted to discredit the left-wing Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn by claiming that he had said that the death of Osama Bin Laden was "a tragedy". The actual tragedy that Corbyn had been referring to was that Bin Laden was assassinated instead of being captured and put on trial. The Prime Minister was widely ridiculed when the truth came to light. For a time it even became a minor meme to attribute the quote "The death of Osama Bin Laden was a tragedy" to Cameron.
This is a very common tactic for The Sun, in fact, usually extending to whatever person they feel like discrediting. Jeremy Corbyn is a frequent target (one example was him saying how he would never go to war, with the quotes omitting the minor prefix of in an ideal world...).
Quote mining is a fairly common tactic for Fundamentalist Christians when they claim that things like books and games are Satanic and trying to turn your kids evil. Usually, this is done by taking something the villain said or did, ignoring the fact that they are the villain, and then claiming that the work is promoting the villain's philosophy rather than condemning it. Just goes to show how much research they bother do before demonizing whatever happens to be popular.
Quote-mining Scripture itself to suit a particular pet doctrine tends to be a thing among Christian pastors and teachers, which goes back to the original Quote Miner himself Satan, when he twisted a few verses in Psalm 91 in order to tempt Jesus into jumping off the high point of the Temple.
This is key to an alleged (there's no evidence it's ever been done successfully) phone-scamming tactic in which a caller simply asks if you can hear them and if you say "yes", they record that, splice it with a recording of something else, and pretend that you used it to authorize a charge or something. Of course, for this to work it would require a company dumb enough to allow a person to buy something with nothing more than the word "yes" but smart enough to establish a voiceprint database with which to match that word "yes" (because if they didn't have such a database, there wouldn't be any need to actually record the victim rather than just impersonate them).
It's so common that it's become a cliche to cite the lines of Martin Luther King Jr's I Have a Dream speech, in which he imagines a truly equal future after all of the injustices and systemic abuses he was fighting against and calls out in the speech itself had been corrected, as if it was not only the entire speech but his entire career and also that it represented America as it exists now. Specifically, it gets reduced to "I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character". Thus, every time somebody speaks up about any kind of civil rights issue, somebody on the other side will use that snippet to claim that even suggesting that something was racially motivated, ever, especially if it disproportionately affects black people, is a betrayal of King because they raised the topic at all.
Another frequently cited quote of Martin Luther King is when he said "Riots are the language of the unheard", using it as proof that he supported riots. The whole speech is actually about how riots are evidence of social unrest and unhappiness and as such, they are understandable, but at the same time they are self-defeating and socially destructive and he always stood for non-violent protests.
It's unfortunately pretty common for scummy prosecutors to use this tactic to make someone look guilty. For example, if someone is accused of murdering someone they might take some quote that was obviously a joke or exaggerating (e.g. "if you forgot my coffee, I'm gonna kill you") as "evidence" that the person wanted to kill the victim.

Dripping Disturbance
"The faucets are dripping in old New York City
The faucets are dripping and oh, what a pity
The reservoir's drying because it's supplying
The faucets that drip in New York"
— Malvina Edwards, "The Faucets Are Dripping"
So, the night comes rolling in and it's time to go to bed. You brush your teeth, put on your pajamas, and get all snuggled nice and warm in bed. You then close your eyes and begin to drop off to sleep...
Drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip!
You suddenly hear a loud dripping sound from the bathroom and go to see what it is. You see that the faucet is dripping because you apparently didn't turn it off all the way. Once you turn off the faucet, you go back to bed, but as you get back in the bed, the faucet starts dripping again, even when you turned it off! One of the things that can result in a Do-It-Yourself Plumbing Project.
This is a Comedy trope that can be Played for Laughs or Rule of Funny in any form of media. Expect to see it in Western Animation. Compare Fly Crazy for a situation similar in execution.
 Animation 
In Clinic, the sequences between the old man's nightmares feature a vaguely-ominous dripping sound in the background. At the end of the cartoon, the old man discovers the dripping is coming from his neighbor, who's in even worse shape than he is to the point of being on life support. Desperate for a good night's sleep, the old man turns off the other patient's IV bag and goes back to bed.
    Anime & Manga 
At the beginning of the Bount arc in Bleach, Orihime has this before an impostor disguised as her brother shows up and kidnaps her (the rest of the cast also notice it when they search her empty house).
In an issue of the Area 88 manga that didn't make it stateside, after he leaves Area 88 and takes up residence in Paris, Shin can't sleep due to a dripping faucet in his apartment. Furious, he sits up in bed and screams at the faucet. This is a decidedly non-comical example, since it is intended to show Shin's psychological disintegration due to war trauma.
    Comic Strips 
A few Garfield strips had Garfield face this dilemma. First he turns the shower head upside down to stop the dripping, only for it to keep dripping even upside-down, he notices it as one of the sounds commonly heard at night and he stops the faucet from dripping by using Jon's toe.
    Films — Live-Action 
In the film musical Chicago, a dripping tap is one of the noises Roxie hears as she tries to get to sleep on her first night in prison. It turns into part of the rhythmic accompaniment to "Cell Block Tango".
In My Cousin Vinny, Vinny and Mona are in a hotel room where the faucet in the bathroom is dripping. Vinny goes through an entire set of arguments (he is a lawyer, after all) about how Mona might have not turned it off completely, with Mona countering with legalese. After about ten minutes, Vinny concludes it's just broken. Later, on the stand, Mona is explaining all the reasons that the car Bill and Stan were driving couldn't be the car the perpetrator used in the robbery, each point logically countered by Vinny, but showing the jury the truth to the arguments.
    Literature 
Showed up in Exile's Valor. Selenay is already having trouble sleeping due to grief over her father's death, and the drip in the royal suite's bathing room isn't helping matters.
    Live-Action TV 
The Twilight Zone (1959): Dripping Disturbance: In "Sounds and Silences", Roswell G. Flemington is disturbed by the sound of water dripping in the middle of the night. This is the first indication that every sound has been magnified.
An episode of House has a patient who has been incapable of falling asleep for several days. When we first see her she is in bed, eyes wide open, as the sound of the faucet seems thundering to her.
Happens to Karl in Mot i Brøstet. Being Karl, he eventually decides to solve it by dressing up like Rambo and taking a chainsaw to the faucet.
Series VII of Red Dwarf features a variant of this in the Duct Soup episode, in which the clangs and noises of a water pipe in the wall keep Kochanski awake all night and drives her mad, to the point of keeping a record of the noise orders in a notebook. She reaches breaking point when she thinks she's memorized the pattern only for a new noise to appear.
Kochanski (twitchy-eyed): It's enough to drive a perfectly sane person crazy!
    Music 
The novelty song "Bloop, Bleep," written by Frank Loesser.
"10.15 Saturday Night" by The Cure. I'm sitting/In the kitchen sink/And the tap drips/Drip drip drip drip drip drip drip drip...
    Puppet Shows 
In an early episode of Sesame Street, Bert can't sleep because a dripping faucet is keeping him awake, so he sends Ernie to take care of it. But instead of turning off the faucet, Ernie turns on a radio that plays loud music to drown out the dripping. Soon after, instead of turning off the radio, Ernie turns on a vacuum cleaner to drown out the radio. Bert then gets up to deal with all the racket, but by the time he gets back to bed, Ernie's asleep, and snoring! Poor Bert.
    Western Animation 
The Tex Avery short "Doggone Tired" had this done deliberately by the rabbit, as one of the tactics to keep the hunting dog awake at night.
As in the Garfield examples above, the Garfield and Friends episode "Peace And Quiet" also has Garfield annoyed by a dripping faucet while trying to get some rest. He stops it with a cork.
The Donald Duck cartoon "Drip Dippy Donald" takes this trope Up to Eleven.
The animated short from UPA based on "The Tell-Tale Heart" uses a dripping tap as the sound the murderer thinks is his victim's accusing heartbeat.
In one House of Mouse cartoon, Mickey lives in an old house where this is one of the many noises that keep him awake.
A variant appears in the 1937 Looney Tunes short "Porky's Badtime Story", in which one of the many things keeping Porky Pig and Gabby Goat up at night is rain water dropping from a leaky roof.
Gabby: I might as well try sleeping under Niagara Falls!
(a deluge of water pours onto the bed)
This was later repeated in the remake "Tick Tock Tuckered".
The Hey Arnold! episode "Bio-Square" has Arnold and Helga locked in a greenhouse together. The sink they use to brush their teeth starts dripping water, keeping Helga awake all night. She later on loses her temper because of it and yanks the faucet off to stop it, flooding the entire greenhouse with the two of them inside.
The Ren & Stimpy Show: A variant in "Space Madness" where Ren and Stimpy are on a lengthy space mission and go on break for six years... it's clear things won't go well when, within thirty seconds, Ren is driven batty by Stimpy's absently tapping his finger on the tabletop.
Ren: Do you HAVE to keep TAPPING like that!!! You BLOATED SACK OF PROTOPLASM!!!
    Real Life 
Truth in Television of course, sensitivity to noises is one of the most common things preventing people from getting sleep. Remedies include earplugs and playing white noise to help deffuse the annoying sounds.

Ruritania
"Stupid national anthem... Look at this flag! Two bears, fighting over a pineapple. What message does this send to the world?! 'Come to Belarus! Where wild animals will steal your fruit!'"
— Bill Bailey
Ruritania is a generic name for any archetypal fictional country located in Central Europe or the Balkans, an area of Southern and Eastern Europe encompassing most of the territory east of Germany and west of Russia. This country is characterized by its small size, backward or quirky customs, and forests full of Savage Wolves and bears. It is often the home of the Funny Foreigner.
The name comes from Anthony Hope's 1894 novel The Prisoner of Zenda. The concept originated about the same time; the idea itself was at least in part inspired by the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which was popularly (and inaccurately, for the most part) regarded by Western Europeans as incompetent and backwater. It spurred an entire genre, known as the Ruritanian Romance (which is derived from Chivalric Romance, not the love story meaning of Romance). At that time and in most early 20th century depictions, Ruritania had a royal house. The King actually did something, the Prince was dashing, the Princess was dazzling, and the headgear was quite frankly ridiculous. The kingdom was forever being schemed against by a lot of dastardly usurpers or anarchists and was a source of tension amongst the Great Powers. That last bit was actually true, unfortunately. A classic example is, of course, the original. Although it is worth noting that where most examples of this trope are set in the Balkans or Eastern Europe, the original was wedged between Germany and Bohemia and had a Germanic-style culture.
Between the wars, the typical Ruritania became slightly less primitive. Wolves, bears, and superstitious peasants still abounded, but automobiles had been introduced and the army now had tanks and planes, with which it prepared bloody revenge on its neighbours. The royals were still around, if a bit less powerful then before, but are now being schemed against by even more dastardly fascists and communists. When WW2 rolled around, Ruritania was likely occupied by the Germans, or was possibly itself an Axis power. In either case, brave partisans equipped with formidable beards kept up a heroic struggle against tyranny without forgetting their true enemy - the village on the other side of the valley. After the war, many Ruritanias became Commie Land and continued to be a lurking place for Dirty Communists, either Soviet-backed or home-grown.
With the coming of Hole in Flag revolutions, Ruritania has pretty much reverted to what it started with: ludicrous hair, ethnic strife, poverty, and backwardness. The most noticeable changes are that the monarchy is (usually) gone, replaced by a mock democracy run by some unsavoury generals, ex-communist strongmen, or corrupt bajillionaires, while the Great Powers are now acting through NATO or the UN. Everyone still seems to hate his neighbours, the anarchists may still be around, or they may have mutated into terrorists or plain old gangsters. With any luck, contemporary Ruritania might be a part of the EU, causing more trouble for its finances than Greece, Spain and Ireland taken together - and in any case, the only international attention Ruritania seems to get occurs during the Eurovision Song Contest, which it wins frequently and handily thanks to votes from Ruritanian guest workers abroad.
If the place shows some of the characteristics of Ruritania, but is also full of vampires, werewolves, Mad Scientists, and other Fantasy or Horror genre tropes, you've strayed over the border into Überwald. We hope you brought some garlic and don't leave the hotel room at night.
Oftentimes, The Old Country is a Ruritania or an Uberwald.
Not to be confused with Ruri-tania.note 
Compare with Toros y Flamenco, Spaghetti and Gondolas, Commie Land, Oktoberfest, Kaiserreich, Yodel Land, Überwald and Glorious Mother Russia. Banana Republic, Bulungi, Qurac and Tropical Island Adventure are similar Latin American, sub-Saharan African, North African/Middle Eastern/South and Central Asian, and Caribbean/Oceanian/Southeast Asian settings respectively.
  Advertising 
Discover's advertising includes a bearded Ruritanian man calling himself "Peggy," who acts to mock their competitors' overseas call centres.
    Anime & Manga 
The Republic of Militaria in Eyeshield 21 (introduced for the World Cup arc) seems to be like this, except, naturally, with a strong focus on its military.
Iono the Fanatics is a two-issue Girls' Love manga whose whole plot is about an Ordinary High-School Student being pursued by the Lovable Sex Maniac queen of a small and obscure European nation. In fact, it's implied at several points that the queen's obsession with having a massive (several thousand strong) harem of women is partially responsible for the traditional poverty associated with Ruritania — one part the economic drain of having to support hundreds of women who live lavish lifestyles but basically do nothing but lounge around, have sex and otherwise amuse themselves, one part the implication she's already taken most, if not all, of the women in the country as her courtesans.
Lupin III:
A few miscellaneous Ruritanias have been featured on the various Lupin TV series. Notable movie examples below.
The Duchy of Cagliostro from The Castle of Cagliostro. Lupin states that the country is 'Ruritanian' when they first enter it, along with it being the smallest UN nation (population: 3,500). However, unlike usual examples of the trope, Cagliostro is located somewhere between France and Italy, and its culture is a mixture of the two.
Vespania from Lupin III vs. Detective Conan, contains expected first-world technology, but remains much less developed and less economically powerful than other countries. A new mineral found only in their country is stolen by Lupin.
Meine Liebe is set between world wars in a lovely noble monarchy on an non-existing island in the Bay of Biscay which lives as if it was still XIX or even XVIII century.
Sailor Moon actually named its fake countries D Country, with its Nerd Glasses-wearing princess simply named Princess D, and U Country, with its... vampire ambassador. No doubt D Country is the original home of Master-D. In the anime, there's also the Amethyst Kingdom, where apparently, the concept of money doesn't exist.
The Asterisk War: Various maps place Julis's homeland of Lieseltania on the southeastern border of Germany, the real-life location of the Czech Republic. In fact it's implied it used to be the western half of Czechia: it used to be part of the Holy Roman Empire and was given de jure independence by the Integrated Enterprise Foundation in exchange for access to its Manadite resources, though it is de facto an IEF Puppet State.
The Royal Tutor is set in the Eastern European kingdom of Granzreich.
Yoshiki Tanaka's novel Apfelland Monogatari, adapted into manga and an anime OVA, was explicitly written as a Ruritanian story and features numerous appropriate tropes such as an Edwardian setting and Great Powers rivalry. Apfelland itself is stated to be located at the crossroads of the German, Russian, and Austro-Hungarian empires. However, as the name suggests, Apfelland is clearly a German-speaking country which is borne out by most of the characters having German names.
    Comic Books 
The Marvel Universe has several, most notably Doctor Doom's homeland of Latveria.
Depictions of Latveria itself run the whole gamut described above, from 19th-century throwback to violence-torn post-Commie Land. Doom's own proximity to the country seems to influence this; when he's in residence, it tends toward the primitive. Doom being Doom, he may well have a Medieval Stasis beam in his castle.
Latveria's next-door neighbor Symkaria, which exists mostly as a base for the Sablinova family's assassin company, the Wild Pack. They hold annual diplomatic dinners. In 21st-century comics, Symkaria and Latveria are constantly on the edge of war with each other.
Slorenia, which was invaded and obliterated by Ultron.
Vorozheika, a former Soviet republic currently ruled by rogue Eternal Druig.
"Come ski in Vorozheika. Also shoot bears."
Nightcrawler once rescued a woman named Judith Rassendyll, who turned out to be the queen of Ruritania (Uncanny X-Men #204).
To some extent, the portrayal of real Central and Eastern European countries in Marvel comics can verge on this — it can be only a small step from Oktoberfest to Ruritania. Germany, apart from Berlin, for instance is generally portrayed in older Marvel comics as a mostly rural place rife with superstitious villagers and sinister looming medieval castles. Giant-Size X-Men #1, for example, opens in the village of Winzeldorf that "has hardly changed over the centuries", apparently to such an extent that they haven't even installed street lighting. Culturally, the place where Mystique gave birth to Nightcrawler, lorded over by a local baron, resembles part of prewar Europe. Pre-Franco-German War, that is.
In the DC Universe:
Markovia, ruled by Prince Brion Markov, who is also the superhero Geo-Force.
For a while after the "Our Worlds At War" arc, there was the Soviet breakaway state of Pokolistan, ruled by the human version of General Zod.
A Mythology Gag brought up repeatedly in the four-part Justice League/Avengers intercompany crossover. The JLA members in particular are nonplussed about the absence of many of their universe's Ruritanias and fictional cities.
Green Lantern (upon landing in Costa Verde): "This Earth may be smaller than ours, but they still have room for countries we don't have!"
Superman - Ruritanias were very common in both The Golden Age of Comic Books and The Silver Age of Comic Books. The first appearance of Lex Luthor was in a 1940 comic in which he was revealed to be the mastermind behind a war between fascist Toran and peaceful Gallonia.
The first storyline in Justice League of America (Rebirth) features several of them, all pre-existing (although mostly not previously established in current continuity): Mostly set in Kravia (from 90s Nightwing) and its neighbour Gardevia (from Batman and Robin Eternal), it has one scene in which Havok threatens the leaders of Markovia, Pokolistan, Slovekia (the pre-Flashpoint Lord Havok's Latveria counterpart) and even Kaznia from the DC Animated Universe.
The Adventures of Tintin feature Syldavia, a kind of Balkan Belgium menaced by its warlike neighbor Borduria. Borduria stands in for Nazism in Tintin: King Ottokar's Sceptre and for Stalinesque Communism in later stories. Syldavia is an atypically detailed version of Ruritania with its own flag, royal dynasty, historical events and even a language created by Hergé. The made-up language, despite being written in Cyrillic script, was, remarkably, not Slavic but a dialect of Flemish/Dutch with some curious phonetics. In Tintin: Destination Moon, it becomes the setting for a fictional space program.In Tintin: The Calculus Affair, Syldavia and Borduria are struggling in a secret war for Calculus' device. The consul of Poldavia (see under Real Life) makes a brief appearance in Tintin: The Blue Lotus.
Spirou and Fantasio visit the country of Bretzelburg, a faux-Austrian military dictatorship which borders another imaginary country of faux-Italian flavor, Maquebasta. It is probably a faux-Liechtenstein, a very tiny monarchy located between Austria and Switzerland.
Achille Talon has the Zotrland, a German speaking monarchy whose main export is beer and that is constantly on the brink of civil war.
Carl Barks' and Don Rosa's Disney Ducks Comic Universe have Brutopia, an obvious name-changed version of the USSR.
Also appears in several Mickey Mouse comics:
In Floyd Gottfredson's classic "The War Orphans" (1944), Mickey helps two kids from a Ruritanian country threatened by the Nazis.
Gottfredson's earlier "Monarch of Medioka" (1937) basically repeats the story of the Prisoner of Zenda with Mickey replacing "Prince Michael."
Romano Scarpa's "Mystery of Tapiocus VI" (1956) finds Mickey helping out the amnesiac king of Mazumia, another Ruritanian country.
In a more modern story, Mickey and Goofy travel the small country of "Schnitzelstein" to catch a thief, but Mickey forgets that he isn't a well-known detective in Schnitzelstein, and cannot simply walk into a police office and demand their cooperation; he gets Goofy and himself wanted as criminals.
Casty's recent "The World To Come" finds Mickey and Eega Beeva engaged in intrigue with the country of Illusitania, which is shown on a map as being located near Medioka and Mazumia.
Another Disney example, Belgravia from Paperinik New Adventures and Double Duck.note 
TV 21, the comic which tied in to various Gerry Anderson shows, had the country of Bereznik which acted as a recurring source of antagonists. This country was apparently carved out at some point in the 21st century from various real life countries following The Great Politics Mess-Up.
A Richie Rich comic once featured a country called Insignifica, a land so small that it could be bought with two unique coins minted for the royal family, the tallest of whom was considered rightful heir to the throne.
The germanic Zôtrland in Achille Talon adventure Le Roi des Zôtres.
The GI Joe comics has Borovia. Interestingly, as the Marvel series ran from the early eighties to mid-nineties and there were several years between stories set in Borovia, its political development ran pretty much lock step with what was happening in the real world, starting as a Soviet bloc country, then gaining independence, followed by very unstable internal conditions.
Soulsearchers and Company has Pastramia: a land primarily inhabited by picturesque tribes of roving gypsies.
Bart Simpson episode "From Lichtenslava with Love" and "Pen Pals" make a reference to the East-European country Lichtenslava.
    Comic Strips 
Dilbert has the imaginary Third World country of Elbonia, which according to Word of God, it represents the American view of any country without cable TV: they wear fur hats and wallow around in waist-deep mud. They're also an entire nation of idiots, who have animals in their government and fight wars over handedness (as in, left vs. right).
There is also the occasional mention of the neighboring country of North Elbonia, which is just like Elbonia but with an even worse government which is downright evil instead of merely stupid.
Incidentally, the strips which introduced Elbonia described it as an Eastern European country which had recently changed from communism to capitalism (this was written around the time of The Great Politics Mess-Up). This backstory appears to have been Retconned away in subsequent strips.
Lower Slobbovia is a communist Ruritania which plays a large role in many Li'l Abner plotlines.
    Fan Works 
In the My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic oneshot fanfiction, Adored the Changeling Kingdom is a straight-up allegory to Tsarist Russia. It is a mountainous, winter beset country, overwhelmingly populated by a large and extremely poor peasant population who are ruled over by an extremely rich, but incompetent and inept autocratic monarchy. Queen Chrysalis is essentially the Tsar; incompetent, having little grasp on the reality of her subjects' suffering, living in an extravagant palace.
The Powers of Harmony has the small town of Transylmane in the Hollow Shades region of Equestria.
Referenced in If They Haven't Learned Your Name when Sam Wilson refers to his current location somewhere in rural Russia as Central Buttfuckistan, because the last four places he's stopped at had no idea what macaroni and cheese was.
    Films — Animation 
World Grand Prix competitor Rip Clutchgoneski from Cars 2 hails from the newly independent "Republic of New Rearendia".
    Films — Live-Action 
The Beautician and the Beast has Slovetzia, a communist kingdom Ruritania, ruled by dictator Timothy Dalton. The Nanny introduces Eagleland values to him, like freedom and democracy, the whole country is stunned, adopt Eagleland osmosis and the dictator falls in love with her. The End.
The 1982 film adaptation of Evil Under the Sun is set on an island resort in the Adriatic kingdom of Tyrrania (apparently Albania). The source novel was set in Devon.
Borat note  turns Kazakhstan into a Ruritania as a satire on how first-world citizens view foreign, third-world countries. The country is depicted as a cartoonish backwater, with cars drawn by donkeys and absurdly intolerant local customs. The scenes were actually filmed in a (gypsy) Romanian village. The people of the village didn't take it with much humor when they heard what the actual movie was about. The only real Kazakh in the movie appears in the village as Oksana. The Kazakh language featured in the film is all other languages, depending on the speaker. Borat speaks mostly Hebrew with some Polish thrown in. Azamat speaks Armenian. The villagers speak Romanian. All "Kazakh" signs and captions are in Polish.
The Marx Brothers movie Duck Soup (1933) has Freedonia, land of the brave and free! In a clear-cut case of Western Imperialism, the wealthy Mrs. Teasdale insists running dog Rufus T. Firefly (Groucho) be appointed President in return for half her husband's fortune to avoid an impending liberation by neighboring Sylvania. (It's not clear whether this is the same Sylvania portrayed in the 1929 film The Love Parade, in which Maurice Chevalier plays a Rich Idiot With No Day Job who becomes prince consort to Sylvania's Queen Louise.)
The largely forgotten W.C. Fields classic Million Dollar Legs (1932) takes place in Klopstockia (chief exports: goats and nuts: chief imports: goats and nuts: chief inhabitants: goats and nuts). The country's out of money and the President's (W.C. Fields) own cabinet are plotting against him. American salesman Migg Tweeney (Jack Oakie), who's fallen in love with the President's daughter Angela (Susan Fleming, later Mrs. Arthur (Harpo) Marx), notices a lot of champion-level athletes among the general population. Since his boss (George Barbier) plans to give huge financial grants to Olympic gold medal winners, Tweeney arranges to have Klopstockia entered in the 1932 Games. In the opening scene we see that Klopstockia is 56km from Haustpeff. Both this film and Duck Soup were produced for Paramount by Herman Manckiewicz.
In The Smiling Lieutenant, the lieutenant is forced to marry the daughter of the king of a tiny Germanic principality called Flausenthurm.
In Steven Spielberg's The Terminal, Victor Navorski comes from the fictional East European country of Krakozhia. Though the Krakozhian language is actually Bulgarian.
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang has Vulgaria. It is as much Prussian as Ruritanian.
The 1940 film The Son of Monte Cristo takes place in the the Balkan kingdom of "Lichtenburg", where the good Princess Zona (Joan Bennett) suffers from the advances of the unscrupulous dictator, General Gurko Lanen (George Sanders). The eponymous hero (Lewis Hayward) leads the revolution in the guise of "The Torch."
The Great Dictator: Tomania, Fictional Counterpart to Nazi Germany, Bacteria, Fictional Counterpart to Fascist Italy, and Osterlitch, Fictional Counterpart of Austria.
You Nazty Spy - A The Three Stooges short has Moronika, which stands in for Germany in the ''Moronika for Morons!''
Concordia in the Cold War comedy Romanoff and Juliet, a postage-stamp European nation that has been conquered and liberated so many times that its citizens "are nominally the freest people in the world", and every day is an Independence Day of some sort. (In the original stage version, the country is not named.) Fiercely determined to maintain neutral during the Cold War, the prime minister ended up playing matchmaker between the Russian ambassador's son and the American ambassador's daughter. Concordia is the ass of the UN; at the UN roll-call, all the nations are called in alphabetical order, with a note on the bottom of the page, "P.S. And Concordia." The country could be a parody of Tito's Yugoslavia.
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - The Durmstrang students hailing from an unspecified Ruritania showed up for the Triwizard Tournament in a ship bearing the double-headed eagle of the Byzantine Empire. The name Durmstrang comes from Sturm und Drang ("Storm and Stress"), a German literary movement. The students are all young men in neat crewcuts and presented in a very disciplined and proud manner (like archetypal German students), wearing tsigeika coats and karakul hats (which are Slavic). Meanwhile, their headmaster Igor Karkaroff has a Russian-sounding surname (the -off ending actually means he may be a Bulgarian), looks like Grigori Rasputin (who was Siberian), and behaves like a stereotypical Russian. At least some of the Durmstrang students have their nationality exactly specified (as Bulgarian).
Austin Powers features a nuclear warhead being stolen from the country "Kreplachistan", indicated by Dr. Evil to be a breakaway Russian republic. Kreplach is a Yiddish word for small dumplings.
The Duchy of Grand Fenwick in The Mouse That Roared.
The country of Strackenz from Royal Flash, a movie explicitly parodying Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda and its imitations.
The unnamed country in the 1978 UK-Canadian mockumentary drama Power Play. The whole plot starts with a coup that tries to overthrow the local People's Republic of Tyranny that ruled the country until then.
The Princess Diaries: The tiny European kingdom of Genovia (a stand-in for Monaco).
In EuroTrip, Bratislava is presented as such, with bleak, post-Soviet urban decay and overblown stereotypes of post-collapse Eastern European poverty.
In DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story, White Goodman mentions that team Purple Cobras' resident Dark Chick Fran Stalinovskovichdavidovitchsky hails form the country of Romanovia, where Dodgeball is the national sport.
The Student Prince in Old Heidelberg is set in an obviously Germanic little kingdom called "Karlsberg" around the beginning of the 20th century.
The Grand Budapest Hotel is set in the fictional Central European country of Zubrowka (named after a well-known brand of Polish flavoured vodka), the seat of an empire before a conflict (described by director Wes Anderson as a amalgamation of WWI and WWII) with its "neighbor to the north" breaks out in late 1932. The Empire of Zubrowka quickly falls due to government and military incompetence, endures a short-lived but imperious occupation, becomes the Republic of Zubrowka, and is overtaken by a Communist regime in the 1940's. By the modern day, the former Republic of Zubrowka is a quiet Alpine backwater. Zubrowka itself was designed as a representation of pre-WWI Austro-Hungary, with Lutz, its capital city, intended to be Vienna, Prague, and Budapest "all rolled into one".
Civilization is a 1916 anti-war film set in the nation of Wredpryd, which is obviously (spiked helmets, upturned mustaches, submarine warfare), supposed to be Germany.
Both the 1925 version and the 1934 version of The Merry Widow are set in fictional tiny Eastern European principalities, Monteblanco in 1925 and Marshovia in 1934, countries tiny enough that one widow taking her fortune abroad is Serious Business. See Theatre below for the original opera.
Avengers: Age of Ultron has Sokovia, a tiny fictional Balkan nation with HYDRA operations, and home to Pietro and Wanda Maximoff. It's a fairly obvious expy of Serbia, perhaps a break-off territory equivalent to Kosovo but populated by ethnic Serbians; its name is a cross between Kosovo and Serbia, all the signs are in Serbian Cyrillic, the buildings are possessing of an architectural mix of toned-down European-style facades with concrete buildings, and per Scarlet Witch's backstory it experienced civil war sometime in the mid to late 90s. Its flag◊ is also very similar to Serbia's, being a red-white-blue tricolor (only vertical, like the French or Romania flag) with an eagle at the center. Generally the country is also notably more backward, with a restive population hostile towards the Avengers and the USA in general. It appears to be a mashup between the twins' comic book home country of Transia and the nation of Slorenia which Ultron massacred.
Its capital is called Novi Grad, which in real life is the name of a suburb of Serbia's capital, Belgrade.
In Civil War, a common dish in Sokovia is stated to be chicken paprikash, which is a Hungarian dish that's also very popular in the Serbian region of Vojvodina owing to the multicultural history of the region (which historically had a large Hungarian minority).
Also in Civil War, it's noted that Zemo comes from Sokovia, where he was a colonel in the "EKO Scorpion black ops unit", which operated during an unknown conflict in Sokovia and apparently behaved quite brutally. Scorpion was also the name of a Serb black ops unit during the Yugoslav Wars, involved in war crimes in Bosnia.
In Koenigsmark/Crimson Dynasty (1935), Grand Duchess Aurora is forced into marriage with the much older Grand Duke Rudolph, who mysteriously "dies abroad". Aurora returns to her castle and duchy, where she falls in love with her husband's nephew's French tutor. War between France and the eastern empire or federation breaks out. Caught between divided loyalties and a dynastic struggle, what is Aurora to do? Takes place mainly in a Bavarian-style castle surrounded by wolf-haunted forests. Based on a novel by Pierre Benoit, it was made in both English and French.
In The Prince and the Showgirl, the titular prince is the prince regent of a fictional Balkan country called Carpathia.
Charlie Chaplin's 1957 comedy film A King in New York begins with King Igor Shahdov being deposed by a revolution in his distinctly Ruritanian East European country, fleeing to the United States only to discover his securities were embezzled by his Prime Minister.
Carpania in The Great Race. Magnificent castles, peasants who provide crowds but are otherwise completely irrelevant, beautiful nobles who specialize in dancing at gorgeous parties, scheming royalty, and a completely nut-case leader. Oh, and pies: lots and lots of pies.
In Final Score the Big Bad and the man he's searching for are respectively the general and former leader of a failed revolution in the Eastern European country of Sakovia.
In The Hunt (2020), Croatia is presented as a hellhole where it's relatively easy for a group of high-powered liberals to kidnap American citizens and hunt them for sport, with the army and police indifferent and apathetic to what little of the plot they hear about, and even the ambassador is in on the Hunt. Probably.
Parts of Scream and Scream Again are set in an unnamed eastern European country that greatly resembles East Germany.
An American Pickle: Herschel Greenbaum leaves his country called "Schlupsk" for the USA. It's clearly meant to evoke Central or Eastern European countries that had lots of shtetls (towns with large Jewish populations) before World War II.
    Literature 
The Trope Namer is the fictional country from Anthony Hope's novel The Prisoner of Zenda, which was published in 1894 and inspired a whole genre of "Ruritanian Romances." There's some evidence that Hope intended Ruritania to be a No Communities Were Harmed version of Romania rather than a generic East European country, having done rather a lot of research, but it was hard to tell unless one happened to have done as much research as he did and overlooks that he placed Ruritania not in Eastern Europe, but smack in between Saxony and Bohemia, two of what then were some of the most advanced industrial regions in Central Europenote .
There is also a fair bit of Unbuilt Trope at work. Most later Ruritanias tend to be small, backwards and, at least in the early imitations, idyllic. Stephenson's Ruritania was a decent-sized (the capital city is large enough to have a cathedral and is described by Londoner Rassendyl as a "great city") modern (if not particularly socially progressive) country which played a pivotal role in European history on a number of occasions, and which was plagued by public order problems, deep socio-economic divides, having an absolute monarch who was neither particularly well-liked nor particularly competent and internal squabbling in the royal family bringing the nation to the brink of civil war.
As a Shout-Out, Ruritania is mentioned by name by both Evelyn Waugh (in Vile Bodies) and P. G. Wodehouse (in several works), both portraying the "ex-King of Ruritania" living in reduced circumstances in London. One Wodehouse story mentions the ex-king as visiting Nice with the Prince and Princess of Graustark (below).
Shirley Jackson gives it a little nod in Life Among the Savages when she describes how her husband and son started collecting coins and would frequently receive in the mail heavy little packages with coins from Ruritania and Atlantis.
However, the literary Ur-Example is found in Robert Louis Stevenson 1885 novel Prince Otto, featuring the alpine country of Grunewald.
Graustark from the novels of George Barr McCutcheon.
The Duchy of Grand Fenwick, a tiny European country about the size of a small town, in the Mouse books by Leonard Wibberley. It defeats the United States in a war in The Mouse That Roared (which it intended to lose); beats the U.S. and Soviet Union in a space race in The Mouse on the Moon; and disrupts the world's finances in The Mouse on Wall Street. In a medieval prequel, Beware of the Mouse, he gives more background on the founding of Grand Fenwick. Here Grand Fenwick is located between France and Switzerland, and the population is English.
Harry Potter:
The Durmstrang Institute of Magic possibly exists in a Ruritania with Eastern European and Germanic overtones. It's never stated exactly where it's located. One student explicitly hails from Bulgaria, while the headmaster and another student have Russian names. Former student Gellert Grindelwald has a Hungarian first name and German surname. The name "Durmstrang" is a fairly obvious play on the German phrase "Sturm und Drang."
According to the Manual, JRK "thinks" (but isn't certain; the location is very secretive, you know) Durmstrang is actually in Norway or Sweden, which fits very well with Viktor Krum's description of the school. Then again, a later Pottermore map places the school in either Russian Karelia or the Baltic countries.
Genovia in The Princess Diaries book series is a fictitious European Principality, however it is more Mediterranean than Eastern European. It's a teeny place (1 mile long, with a population of 50,000) which is supposed to be between France and Italy (reminiscent of Monaco, or, maybe, Seborga) or between France and Spain (like Andorra) in the movies where it's a Kingdom. It's pretty nice, if a bit dull.
1938 novel Biggles Goes To War features two Ruritanias: small, peace-loving Maltovia and bullying larger neighbour Lovitznia. Although a thinly-disguised allegory for the German takeover of Austria, in the novel it is the Maltovians who appear more German and the Lovitznians who have more of the Slav about them. It is left to the reader to decide whether Capt. Johns was inverting the stereotype or subtly pushing a message about the Red Menace...
Borogravia from the Discworld book Monstrous Regiment.
Mixolydia is a Slavic Ruritania invented by Angela Thirkell for her Barsetshire novels. In the novel "Cheerfulness Breaks In," set in the opening year of World War Two, Barsetshire has to accomodate a number of refugees from Mixolydia, all of whom are various foreigner tropes. We learn that the local religion is Orthodoxy, and they have a long list of hereditary enemies among real-world nations. The name is a word-play on the mixolydian mode or scale in music.
Barrayar in Lois McMaster Bujold's Vorkosigan Saga book series is basically a planet-wide Ruritania. The planet was settled by Russians, Greeks, French, and English, with Russian culture dominating. Take a multi-cultural interstellar colony, add several centuries of dark ages, and shake.
The plot of the Agatha Christie novel The Secret of Chimneys is about the murder of the prince of the Balkanic state of "Herzoslovakia", and the identity of the next in line for the throne. Many plot elements are (probably deliberately) reminiscent of The Prisoner of Zenda.
Dashiell Hammett's Continental Op novella This King Business is a weird genre hybrid that puts a hard-boiled detective into a The Prisoner of Zenda-style plot.
Ursula K. Le Guin's Orsinian Tales - The fictional Central European nation Orsinia fits this trope perfectly, covering several centuries of imagined history.
"The Loyal Traitor", in G. K. Chesterton's 1930 book Four Faultless Felons, takes place in the mythical Teutonic kingdom of Pavonia (<L., pavo, peacock).
James Hogan's Voyage From Yesteryear has Baluchistan, a tangentially-mentioned (and surprisingly extant, though only as a region in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran, and not a state) battleground for the US and USSR.
Agaton Sax: This detective drama spoof featured the Balkan (and appearenly Communist) republics Brosnia and Mercegovina. The eponymous detective starts his career by stopping counterfeiters from wrecking the Brosnian economy. Brosnian criminal mastermind professor Anaxagoras Frank is a regular bad guy, and the author, who loved to play with language, gives us several examples of "Brosnian".
The main character of Rose Tremain's The Road Home hails from an unnamed Ruritania whose location is never given to any more precision than "Eastern Europe". It is generally considered to represent Poland - the story was loosely based on accounts of Polish migrant labourers - but doesn't resemble it very much.
Evelyn Waugh's Vile Bodies just went ahead and named its version "Ruritania". The ex-king is a minor character who appears at a party and misses his old pen, which had an eagle on it.
Many Michael Moorcock works feature the fictional Central European state of Waldenstein and its capital Mirenberg to a greater or lesser extent, although it's quite a lot more culturally and artistically sophisticated than the usual Ruritania.
Robert Musil's "Kakania" (from the term "K.u.K.") wasn't so much based on the Habsburg Empire. Rather, it pretty much was Austria-Hungary. He proceeds to describe how strange, unappreciated and unflattering it was. In the end however, he realizes that Kakania/Habsburgia had an underlying order that betrayed a stroke of genius.
The Duchy of Strackenz in Royal Flash (Vol 2 of The Flashman Papers). This is something of a mobius example because, in-story, Anthony Hope based The Prisoner of Zenda on Flashman's account of his exploits in Strackenz.
Andre Norton's first novel, The Prince Commands, took place in "Morvania" in the early 1930s. The Air Force consisted of one barely-flyable plane, and horse cavalry was still a viable force because machine guns were rare and armored cars or tanks not available. The conspirators against the throne included a Communist agitator; the old king had been a brutal tyrant; and the rightful new king, after dodging an assassination attempt, was Faking the Dead and pretending to be a bandit chieftain, rebel, and werewolf. Despite its small size, the place was apparently strategic enough that the main character, newly designated as Crown Prince, had to make state appearances in Paris, London, and Berlin on his way to Morvania (he'd grown up in the U.S., and ignorant of his heritage, too).
Bram Stoker's The Lady in the Shroud features the Land of the Blue Mountains, a very, very thinly-veiled Mary Suetopia version of Montenegro.
Calbia, from the Doc Savage novel The Kingmaker.
The kingdom of Zembla in Charles Kinbote's "notes" in Vladimir Nabokov's Pale Fire. Anything more would confuse you.
Subversive Activity is set in 1875 in Maldona, which occupies a small peninsula east of Greece and west of Turkey.
A College of Magics and When the King Comes Home feature a cluster of small countries that were each a duchy in the old-time Kingdom of Lidia before it fell apart. Most of them (including Galazon, the heroine's homeland in A College of Magics) are still duchies, but Aravill promoted itself to a kingdom (and is considered jumped-up by its neighbours).
The American government textbook American Government by Wilson and DiIulio contains a hypothetical scenario in which you are asked how you, as a journalist, would deal with inside information about terrorists from Ruritania.
The fictitious travel guide Molvanîa: a Land Untouched by Modern Dentistry is about one of these. Molvanîa itself is probably better known on the Internet as the home country of pop singer Zladko Vladcik (played by the book's co-writer Santo Cilauro) of Elektronik Supersonik fame.
Gerolstein in the Prince Rodolphe tales by Eugene Sue.
The Former Soviet Autonomous Region of Krassnia in The Restoration Game by Ken MacLeod. The book is mostly set in the present, in which Krassnia is a bit of the Georgia/Chechnya border with its own language and dreams of independence, but has extensive Flashbacks to Krassnia under the Soviets in The '30s and The '80s and as part of the Russian Empire in The Edwardian Era. The name is a Shout-Out to an allegory by J.B.S. Haldane, in which the Republic of Krassnia has "materialism" as a state religion, and this very much informs the character of MacLeod's Krassnia.
Avram Davidson's stories of Dr. Eszterhazy are set in the Empire of Scythia-Pannonia-Transbalkania, the "Fourth largest empire in Europe." It's pre-WWI Austria-Hungary turned up to 11, and a recurring theme in the stories is that any change will likely plunge the whole place into bloody chaos.
Used by name in Philip José Farmer's Riverworld book The Dark Design as one of the millions of tiny states along the great River.
Lutha in The Mad King by Edgar Rice Burroughs is a small kingdom tucked in between Serbia and Austria-Hungary.
Brungaria in some of the Tom Swift books (e.g. Tom Swift and the Galaxy Ghosts).
The plot of the Bernie Rhodenbarr novel The Burglar Who Thought He Was Bogart has the creatively named kingdom of Anatruria stand in for Malta for references to The Maltese Falcon and for Czechoslovakia for references to Casablanca. Due to the tone of the aforementioned films, Anatruria is Played for Drama.
The fictional country of Ravka in The Grisha Trilogy is based off of Tsarist Russia.
Samavia in The Lost Prince by Frances Hodgson Burnett is one of the last hurrahs of the pre-WWI romantic Ruritania. It's somewhere on the far side of Austria-Hungary from England, but the one time its precise location is given it is expressed in terms of the countries Samavia shares borders with, all of which are just as fictional as it is.
The Enid Blyton novel The Circus of Adventure has the fictional kingdom of Tauri-Hessia.
An unusual example can be found in the city-state of Besźel, one of the titular cities in China Miéville's The City & the City. It's described as being bustling and economically prosperous in the 80s, but decayed and backwater in the current day, overtaken by its neighbor city-state, the Istanbul analogue of Ul Qoma. What's so unique about Besźel and Ul Qoma is that they occupy the same space. The citizens of one city are taught from birth to completely ignore the existence of the other, setting up much of the book's plot.
Simon Templar aka The Saint spent much of his early career fighting the villainous Crown Prince Rudolf - whose country is never named but who gives a distinctly Ruritanian impression.
The Tin Princess by Philip Pullman is a Ruritanian romance that takes place in the fictitious little kingdom of Razkavia (near Germany).
From austrian author Fritz von Herzmanovsky-Orlando's novel Maskenspiel der Genien comes the Tarockania, a thinly-veiled stand-in for Austria.
In the murder mystery novel A Shilling for Candles by Josephine Tey, there are several mentions of a fictional Eastern European nation where several different ethnic groups are simultaneously fighting for independence. It turns out that one of the suspects has ties to the independence movement, and lied to the police about his movements on the day in question because he was involved in dubiously legal activities on its behalf.
Rule 34 by Charles Stross features two: Krygzystan, a former Soviet state which has severe financial problems, but whose current president is a very intelligent economist; and Issyk-Kulistan, formerly part of Krygzystan, until it was given independence against its will and also saddled with 80% of the national debt and Mob 2.0 connections in what turns out to be a very complex scam based on "What if we did the subprime mortgage thing, only with countries? And made the victims gangsters, with international law enforcement's blessing?"
Splotvia in the Nursery Crime series. In keeping with Jasper Fforde's fondess for Anachronism Stew and Retro Universe, it was a monarchy until the 1990s, and then became a socialist republic at around the same time as the Soviet Union was collapsing.
The Chalet School series has Belsornia, a fictional kingdom located somewhere in the Balkans, near Italy, where the state religion is Catholicism (as opposed to Orthodox Christianity). The king's granddaughter, Elisaveta, is the titular princess in 'Princess of the Chalet School'' and subject of a kidnapping conspiracy by her father's evil cousin, Prince Cosimo. In the World War 2 era books, Belsornia is invaded by the Nazis and Elisaveta and her family are forced to flee, and she becomes a Fallen Princess who works as a cleaner to survive, and takes on the name of 'Mrs Helston' (Helston being her mother-in-law's name). After the war ends, Belsornia becomes a republic and is annexed by the Soviet Union.
Nick Velvet: In "The Theft of the Crystal Crown", Nick is hired to steal the symbolic (but valueless) glass crown of the Kingdom of New Ionia. New Ionia is a constitutional monarchy on a island between the southern tips of Italy and Greece. The island is 50 miles long and 25 miles wide with one major city. It also has a lot of strange customs, as is it be expected in a Ruritania, and Nick's theft has the potential to completely overthrow the social order.
Damon Runyon:
In "The Big Umbrella", the king of a nameless Ruritania gets deposed by a military coup, and winds up in New York with no money. (A character remarks that this is happening so often nowadays that ex-kings are becoming something of a nuisance.) This particular ex-king gets a job as a prize-fighter, which gives him some useful skills and acquaintances when he goes to get his throne back.
In "Gentlemen, the King!" a group of Philadelphia gangsters are hired to go to a Ruritania and assassinate the king.
    Live-Action TV 
Doctor Who:
"The Androids of Tara" takes place on a Ruritanian planet called Tara, where aristocrats fence with electrified swords.
Peladon, the setting for "The Curse of Peladon" and "The Monster of Peladon" has Ruritanian elements. The technologically premodern and tradition-bound planet of Peladon, which still has a monarchy nevertheless has great significance to the galactic powers, given its natural reserve of trisilicate.
Mission: Impossible sent the main characters into various incarnations of Soviet Ruritania on a regular basis. The producers made up a fake Ruritanian "language" (called Gellerese after the show's executive producer) to use on signs; the idea was that it look somewhat Slavic, but similar enough to English that the viewing audience could immediately guess what it meant - and thus such subtle jokes as "zona restrik", "machinawerke", "gäz" and "entraat verbaten" got into an otherwise serious show.
Surprisingly, the utility covers for gas pipelines in Real Life Poland really are labeled "gäz".
The Monk episode "Mr. Monk Falls in Love" involved the country of Zemenia.
Perfect Strangers, of course, has the Mediterranean island nation of Mypos, a takeoff on Greece and/or Cyprus with elements of a tourist's eye view of Turkey, Armenia and Lebanon. Aspects of Mypos culture seem to be borrowed from George Papashvily's famous book Anything Can Happen, about his early days in the U.S. as a Georgian immigrant. In fact, one episode was a retelling of Papashvily's epic tale of how he attempted to go into business with some friends and made and sold khinkali dumplings to restaurants.
Often invoked during the "Improbable Mission" segments of Whose Line Is It Anyway?. Colin and Ryan inevitably end up doing a task for the president or prime minster of a country with a name like Allupania or Garfunkistan.
Malcolm in the Middle has Lois's mother hailing from an unspecified Ruritania, full of wacky traditions including intricate sword dancing for the ladies and extreme contests of strength and mind for the men looking to obtain a wife. Not to mention said mother's ability to intimidate Lois just by speaking her native language.
There were hints at this country being located in Eastern Europe, and one episode (relating to a St. Grotus day) also strongly implies that said country was actually Croatia (as it took place at a Croatian community center, had a Croatian flag, and it even had poster of Zagreb Cathedral).
Several episodes of Get Smart featured the Balkan nation of Coronia, which was so much a Ruritania that the episodes it appeared in were a retelling of The Prisoner of Zenda.
NCIS has a country called Belgravia. (See the comics section for its origin.) In one episode the team has to protect the daughter of the Belgravian ambassador.
JAG: In “Washington Holiday” Harm is assigned as naval escort to the daughter of the King of Romania while in DC. While Romania is a real country it has not restored its former monarchy in real-life.
Spoofed in Castle : A murdered spy was supposed to assassinate someone from a country called the Republic of Lovania, but quick Internet search reveals that no such country exists. The murder victim turns out to have been taking part in a "spy vacation."
Latka Gravas in Taxi is from an unidentified Ruritania. The national dress seen in episodes like "The Wedding of Latka and Simca" places the homeland somewhere in central Europe.
The Monkees episode "Royal Flush" has Davy rescuing the princess of Harmonica from drowning, only to find her uncle, Archduke Otto, is trying to assassinate her before she becomes queen. The trope is played with when he spells the name of the country on the phone, there's a pause and he exclaims "There is so!"
Also, in “The Card Carrying Red Shoes,” a ballerina from the country Druvania falls in love with Peter (or, his “face”).
And in “The Prince and the Paupers,” Davy switches places with his doppelganger, the prince of Peruvia.
And again in "Everywhere a Sheik Sheik," Davy is set to marry the Princess Colette of the fictional middle-eastern nation Nahudi.
In That '70s Show Fes' home country is never identified. Teasers are given that he's anything from Central American to Eastern European. There are multiple times he refers to it as "whatever the hell country I am from."
The Price Is Right once offered a trip to "Boguslovania" as an April Fools' gag showcase.
One episode of the Danish political drama Borgen centres around the visit of the president of Turgisia, a former Soviet republic with a dubious human rights record.
The long-running soap opera Days of Our Lives had an often villainous family, the Alamains, who were royalty from a small European country named Alamania. In an aversion, it's actually implied to be somewhere around France, Germany, and/or Switzerland (and Alemannia is a Real Life alternate name of Germany), but the country is often depicted as so impoverished, autocratic, and corrupt that it might as well be a former Soviet Bloc country.
Family Tree: Luba comes from Moldavia, which is treated as Ruritania. She frequently discusses bizarre beliefs and customs from her home country.
Slaka from the British series The Gravy Train Goes East is a post-communist version of this, and is Played for Laughs. Appropriately enough, the series was filmed in 1991, shortly after the Hole in Flag revolutions.
One MacGyver episode featured two nations called Samadia and Azmir.
In London's Burning, Blue Watch tackle a fire at the London embassy of Crajova.
In the introduction to one episode of Canada's Worst Driver Ever, host Andrew Younghusband says that he was doing some reading on "the driving practices of the Volvovian tribe who live in Southern Truckcaristan.''
Whodunnit? (UK): "A Deadly Tan" featured the murder of a dictator in a Ruritania called Barania, which one of the characters indicated was located between Moldova and Albania (which is either satire meant to show the lack of knowledge of that character, an in-universe joke or a blatant Critical Research Failure by the episode writers, because Moldova and Albania do not share any border, being spaced about 800 km apart). The security forces seemed to have stepped out of a Banana Republic, however.
The 30 Rock episode "SeinfeldVision" reveals the existence of two European countries that only rich people know about: Svenborgia and Grenyarnia.
One episode of Forever features a Ruritania called Urkesh. Henry saved its prince decades ago, before the monarchy was overthrown in a violent revolution. When the prince, now an old man, dies in New York, Henry investigates and discovers that he was poisoned. Henry's phrase to the deceased's wife after finding out who he was indicates that the people of Urkesh speak Russian. A scene at an Urkesh restaurant indicates that they use Cyrillic.
Carry On Laughing!: Pluritania, from the spoof of The Prisoner of Zenda.
While we aren't given the exact location of Yerba from Victorious, it does resembles a stereotypical Ruritanian country. The military outfits and the occurring conflicts seem to reference war-era Germany and Russia (or the more current Libyan civil war); and the Yerbanian flag's basis IS the Albanian flag.
[[The Suite Life on Deck]] features the fictional European country of Liechtenstamp in it's first season.
    Music 
The aforementioned Zladko "Zlad!" Vladcik, who claims to hail from Molvanîa. His songs "Elektronik Supersonik" and "I Am the Anti-Pope" were, In-Universe, Molvanîa's submissions to the Eurovision Song Contest in 2004 and 2005, respectively.
    Radio 
The Radio 4 Sitcom Man of Soup was set in a Ruritania parody with all the associated tropes turned Up to Eleven.
Bob & Ray - the "funnies in the news" announcer Peter Gorey (Bob, using a Lorre accent: "Een other news, only vun man vas keeled attempting suicide today...") hailed from Lower Schizophrenia.
    Tabletop Games 
Space:1889 places an actual Ruritania in the Balkans, in Conklin's Atlas of the Worlds.
In the popular card game Contraband, the most valuable card that players must smuggle past the "Customs Officer" is labelled as the Ruritanian Crown Jewels.
Scythe has this for most of its Eastern European states, like the "Rusviet Union" and "Republic of Polania." While the Crimean Khanate did exist historically, it was gone by World War I.
    Theatre 
Possibly the Ur-Example : The Grand Duchy of Gerolstein in Jacques Offenbach 1867 operetta La Grande Duchesse de Gerolstein.
Andorra in Max Frisch's eponymous Andorra. Explicitly stated not to be related to the real-life microstate of Andorra in any way. Then there is also its unnamed, bigger Fascist neighbour, which seems to be closely inspired by Nazi Germany.
The Irving Berlin musical Call Me Madam has the duchy of Lichtenburg — a portmanteau of Liechtenstein and Luxembourg: "too small to be a city, too big to be a town." Its main export is cheese.
Pontevedro in The Merry Widow (renamed Marsovia in the first English translation of the operetta). By the way, it's a thinly disguised Montenegro.
In Ivor Novello's King's Rhapsody, most of the action takes place in the kingdom of Murania.
Young Frankenstein says outright, in the song "Transylvania Mania," "Whether you're in Ruritania, or a dance hall in Albania."
Gilbert and Sullivan created two significant Ruritanias: Barataria in The Gondoliers and Pfennig-Halbpfennig ("Penny-Halfpenny" in German) in The Grand Duke.
Don't Drink The Water, written by Woody Allen early in his career, is set in the American embassy of an unnamed Soviet Ruritania.
Jean-Paul Sartre's Dirty Hands (Les Mains Sales) is set in a fictional European country called Illyria (in real life, a historical name for roughly the parts of the former Yugoslavia along the Adriatic) during World War II. It is supposed to be an ally of Nazi Germany, on the verge of being annexed to the Eastern Bloc.
    Video Games 
Half-Life 2 is set in what appears to have been at one time a former Soviet state. No word has been given on the place's true location, and judging by the accents of all the NPCs you meet there, none of them are from there (seeing that many of them were forcibly relocated.) The only true native seems to be Father Grigori.
Strangely though, the gas pumps around City 17 are labeled in Swedish.
City 17, while not acknowledged to be anywhere specific within the game, is modeled after Sofia, capitol of Bulgaria and the Art Director's home town. The plaza in particular is almost identical (besides the Combine locks, checkpoints, cameras, and sense of Orwellian tyranny, of course).
The car wrecks are distinctively eastern Bloc, like the trabant.
A background detail in Half-Life 2: Episode One practically confirms City 17 as Riga, Latvia. There is a map showing City 17 with a river called the Daugava flowing through it. This is the name of a real river that flows through... you guessed it, Riga. There are also other bits of evidence. The skyline of Riga resembles City 17's, City 17 is coastal and borders a sea (Riga is the only coastal city that the Daugava flows through), the lettering on most signs is Russian suggesting an ex-Soviet country, and there's also occasionally Swedish lettering, suggesting that City 17 is not too far away from Sweden (Latvia is a stone's throw away from Sweden, and hosts many Swedish businesses). Finally, there's numerous restaurants with signs that translate to "Café Baltic", which would match Riga's location in one of the Baltic States.
In the Ace Combat series, the nation of "Belka" (a real word, Russian for... squirrel?..) is the bad guy country and starts the Belkan War. Half the countries in Ace Combat follow this pattern — Yuktobania, Usea, Estovakia, etc.
Chrome Hounds's fictional nation, The Republic of Morskoj. Its history labels it as a former Soviet satellite that gained its independence when the Soviet Union collapsed, though they remain strong allies with Russia. Of course, they live in the coldest region of the fictional continent the game is set in. Olyena Guba seems to be the remnants of Ruritania past. And it is normally a Morskoj territory.
Nancy Drew The White Wolf of Icicle Creek features a character named Yanni who is a skiier from a country called "Fredonia". Not much is learned of Fredonia, but one can guess that it is an Eastern Europe or possibly former Soviet-union state from his accent. For a series that usually tires to set itself within the real world, it really stands out to see an entirely fictional country implied to exist. This was likely justified in that Yanni is the game's culprit, who was bombing to attempt to mine for Uranium on orders of his government. Given the political motivations for his actions, Her Interactive probably did not want to point fingers at any particular real-world government nor did they want to make it an even more dated game by setting it pre 1990s and have him be a soviet spy.
Infocom's Border Zone is set in the fictional Soviet satellite state of Frobnia, complete with gruff officials demanding papers, run-down Soviet-era block apartments, international Cold War espionage plots, and a faux-Slavic language.
The satirical PC shooter Heavy Weapon revels in this trope, set in an alternate 1984 where the "Red Star" has declared war on the rest of the world, and the player rolls the title vehicle through nineteen faux-Soviet countries.
Act 3 of Metal Gear Solid 4 simply takes place in "Eastern Europe". Although the specific country you're in is never named, it is certainly Prague within the Czech Republic. Notably, though, it's not portrayed as rural at all; the entire mission takes place in a reasonably modern city.
Metal Gear - Outer Heaven, although various supplementary materials state that it is located within the Republic of South Africa. The Galzburg region of the Republic of South Africa, however, does qualify as a ruritania.
Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake - Zanzibar Land. It straddles the line between Ruritania and Qurac.
Sega's tactical RPG Valkyria Chronicles features the not-so-subtle "East European Imperial Alliance" as the villain nation, managing to mix together Tsarist Russia and the Warsaw Pact into one fun, evil package. They also look like Putting on the Reich A Nazi by Any Other Name.
Republic: The Revolution is set in Novistrana, a post-Communist Ruritania complete with lots of concrete and people Speaking Simlish with a distinctly Slavic cadence.
Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney has the Republic of Borginia, which is vaguely eastern European and has what are probably Romani and its language, Borginian, is written in dingbat characters.
In Ace Attorney Investigations: Miles Edgeworth there is Cohdopia, an European nation that was split into two smaller countries (Babahl and Allebahst) as well. As well as as the republic of Zheng Fa.
Sloborskaia in the N64 adaptation of Mission Impossible (1997).
Sercia (presumably a pun on Serbia) in Time Crisis.
The Malden Islands and the Independent Republic of Nogova Island from Operation Flashpoint. Bonus points for them being ex-Commie Lands that recently liberated themselves from Soviet clutches (but had to fight for their own independence once again during the storylines of the game's campaigns).
Operation Flashpoint's Spiritual Successors, ARMA: Armed Assault, is full of those as their main settings. Mostly to prevent controversies but still provide an accurate foregin conflict zone.
ARMA: Armed Assault has The Kingdom of Sahrani Island played this trope fairly straight, being a stereotypical Mediterranean-esque monarchy based on Cyprus. It's adversary is the aforementioned People's Republic of Tyranny in the northern half of the island, which broke away from the kingdom a few years ago. There's even a city, called Corazól located in the border between the North and South where there's a walled demilitarized zone diving the city in two, filled with ruined buildings. If you succeed in beating the main campaign, you can defeat the Democratic Republic of Sahrani and help restore the original united kingdom.
In ARMA II, you get the Republic of Chernarus, a Czech-speaking country bordering on Russia that gets entangled in bloody civil war with Russophone Communist extremists (and later with Nationalist militias), sparking first a NATO, then a Russian intervention. It takes its name from Belarus, its geography from the Czech Republic, the conflict from the The Yugoslav Wars, and its general aesthetics from Ukraine. Incidentally, since the outbreak of the Ukrainian Civil War in 2014, it has become surprisingly prophetic in its subject matter.
Also, the conflict in Takistan seen in ARMA II: Operation Arrowhead has any resemblance to the First Gulf War for how it started, the Second Gulf War for what happened to the country, or to Afghanistan for how the local people behave.
The Republic of Altis and Startis in III is an interesting example. The maps are based on real life greek islands 'Lemnos' and 'Agios Efstratios' (Altough the game makes clear it's NOT the islands with a different name in the future but an entire separate location), the general theme of the islands is very similar to the countries of Malta and Cyprus - independent Mediterranean island republic - with the history begin mostly similar to Cyprus than Malta, both Altis and Cyprus were colonized by various nations, such as the Phoenicians, Greeks and Arabs, both nations are mostly famous for their tourist attractions, both nations became independent recently from the British, both suffered at the hands of a bloody civil war (Altough Cyprus' case was mostly ethnic), both became overseen by foreign peacekeepers and were invaded by a Near Eastern power. The AAF is also very similar to the Armed forces of Malta and the Cypriot National Guard.
Livonia in the Contact DLC has borders with Russianote  using Polish as the official language, and are considered a baltic country. The way on how they recently joined NATO and are a stepping-stone for a Russian invasion of NATO makes them a very clear stand-in for Baltic countries and Poland, with it being named after a region in Estonia and Latvia. The LDF even uses the "Promet" rifle, based on the Polish "MSBS Grot B" model adopted as Poland's service rifle in 2018.
Arstotzka of Papers, Please is a Soviet-era Ruritania set among a cluster of other Ruritanias. It has all the features of a Soviet Bloc country of the era, including bureaucracy, constant rule changes, and rampant corruption — but given the constant flood of people trying to sneak in, it's entirely possible the surrounding nations are even worse.
Resident Evil 4 is a bizarre example. The game takes place in an unnamed European country where the people speak Spanish with Mexican accents and have Spanish names, an ingame map places the village in the center of the Iberian Peninsula next to Madrid, and the currency is Peseta, which was Spain's currency before switching to Euro, Word of God have outright claimed that the country isn't Spain. The fact that the actual in-game environment is a mix of this trope and Überwald otherwise just makes it even more confounding.
Resident Evil 6 has Edonia, which is a former Soviet bloc country in Eastern Europe in the middle of a civil war where the inhabitants speak Serbo-Croatian.
Arulco in Jagged Alliance 2. Possibly. Arulco seems to have some difficulty in deciding whether it wants to be a Ruritania or a Banana Republic. Parts of the country are filled with pine forests and log houses, others are deserts and jungles. The Big Bad is explicitly Romanian, but married the former king, who has the very Spanish-sounding name Enrico Chivaldori. The inhabitants all speak English, but their names accents vary between American, Spanish, German and vaguely East European with no rhyme or reason whatsoever.
Hyrule in The Legend of Zelda is a Medieval European Fantasy version of this, being a monarchy with a lot of Greek influences in it's architecture, monsters and naming schemes that is constantly conquered, has quirky customs, a bloody history and borders a desert country inhabited by Arab-like peoples.
Just Cause 3 is set in Medici, a fictional small, poor Mediterranean island country under the control of an insane general who plans on conquering the world.
A Hat in Time has Mafia Town, a Mediterranean-like island city whose main inhabitants speak in Slavic accents and enjoy punching everything.
The Quest for Glory series has Spielberg in Quest for Glory I, Mordavia in Quest for Glory IV and Silmaria in Quest for Glory V. The first is a German-style country, the second an Eastern European-style country and the third a Greek-style island country.
    Web Animation 
Homestar Runner In the Strong Bad Email "secret recipes", Strong Bad claims his family is from "Bumdumbourge". "It's near, uh, Totalslava."
    Web Original 
Wallachia, in the Whateley Universe. Supervillain Lord Paramount took it over and crowned himself Prince of the country. Wallachia is a real place, nowadays a geographic region of Romania. It was formed as a principality in the 14th century, an independent nation ruled by a prince.
This article on Cracked (about ridiculous G.I. Joe action figures) parodies this trope by mentioning that villain Darklon originates from "the kingdom of Darklonia, a nebulous Eastern Bloc nation sharing its borders with Borovia and Madeupbullshitistan".
Invoked by a Con Artist on the Internet by the name of Valentin Mikhaylin from 1998 to 2009. Every year, around November or December (when more people are thinking about donating to charity), he would send out a Chain Letter, claiming to be in dire straits because he (or someone in his family, usually his mother) was unable to work and not getting any assistance from the government. He would ask "donors" to give items such as food, vitamin supplements, clothing, and/or money.
According to this video, Sponge and his brother Pretzel of Vinesauce lore are stated to hail from the country of Kraskatalia. When the country is mentioned in the video, the accompanying visual depicts a blank map of Europe with the phrase "I'm sure it's in here somewhere" edited over it.
    Western Animation 
Ben 10: Ultimate Alien gives us Zarkovia, a small monarchy somewhere in Europe.
In Bojack Horseman, Diane ventures to the war-torn nation of Cordovia, ruled by a tyrannical Doppelgänger of Todd.
Count Duckula refers to Ruritania by name on more than one occasion.
The DC Animated Universe has Kaznia/Kasnia, a fictional country which appears to be located in the Balkans and to alternate (throughout the various time periods it is visited) between peace and a civil war between Northern and Southern factions.
Doug: The country of Yakistonia, home of Fentruck Stimmel.
Rolf of Ed, Edd n Eddy seems to come from one of these, though we never learn what "the Old World" is actually called. We do learn of its wacky customs in one episode, however, which include Folk Songs rife with violence between the singers ("That's my horse!" *SLAP*), "bartering poles", upon which the seller and consumer must balance by their abdomens while conducting business with produce and livestock, and idiots falling into holes being sufficient grounds for a celebration. His culture seems to respect shepherds, as Rolf often boasts of being the son of one and is quick to defend the honor of this heritage, yet he also claims that barbers are the masculine ideal in the Old Country.
Fredonia and Sylvania, two Eastern European countries that appear in a single episode of The New Adventures of Speed Racer, have a centuries of hostility between them.
The Fairly OddParents has Ustinkistan where Vlad and Gladys, Timmy's maternal grandparents, hail from. Their economy is based around turnips and the fairy godparents who live there can only grant turnip-based wishes.
The Robo-Hungarian Empire from Futurama, which manages to be impoverished and technologically backward despite being inhabited entirely by robots. Its capital, Thermostadt, is a robotic Überwald.
There's also an in-universe Ruritania, Robonia, made up by Bender as a part of a con to win the Olympics. Its national anthem? "Hail, Hail, Robonia! A land that I didn't make up!"
In Jem, the Holograms go to Morvania, a made up Slavic country, and in a season 3 episode, they go to Croatia, both of which are presented this way.
In Phineas and Ferb there's Drusselstein, birthplace of Dr. Doofenshmirtz and borderline Überwald.
Rocky and Bullwinkle had Boris and Natasha's home country of Pottsylvania, an imaginary Soviet satellite where literally everyone is a spy.
There was also an arc featuring a country that was actually called Ruritania.
Thembria from TaleSpin was a mock version of the Soviet Union (which was still around at the time), with its hostile sub-arctic climate, babushka-clad peasantry, an inept centralized government that still insisted it was "glorious" and a moribund economy that resulted in constant shortages of everything. The last of which happened so often that a Running Gag was the Thembrian Air Force never had any actual bullets for shooting down enemy aircraft and would ineffectively wail away with whatever they did have, including bathtubs and lunch meat.
It gets worse; they even ban imagination, because imaginative people do not conform.
The Venture Bros. had an episode featuring the country run by the villain Baron Underbheit. It resembled the generic Eastern Europe country in every way... castles, forests, doomy dooms of gloom... but it is learned in the last few seconds of the episode that it somehow borders Michigan. Baron Underbheit is an expy of Doctor Doom. (As lampshaded by the Monarch)
In The Space Race episode of Dog City, the "other side" was Catsylvania, represented by the feline cosmonaut Bestov Breed.
Baron von Rottweiler's castle appears to be located in such a place the few times it's seen.
The actual Transylvania, complete with Castle Frankenfido, appears in another episode. Everyone has a vaguely German accent and there are mobs of villagers in Victorian garb carrying torches and pitchforks.
In "Bark to the Future," von Rottweiler takes over Dog City and turns it into Rottersburg, a Ruritania-style dystopia where State Sec Mooks patrol the streets and propaganda posters urging everyone to vote for von Rottweiler (OR ELSE!) adorn every wall and they have Oktoberfest all year long.
The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius has Bolbi Stroganovsky, the school's Funny Foreigner, who hails from "Backhairistan".
In My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic proper, Griffonstone is eventually revealed to be this, as a counterpart to Equestria's Schizo Tech Medieval European Fantasy. Everyone wears clothing that ranges from Hungarian/Romanian to Turkish to Mongolian. The houses seem vaguely reminiscent of Eastern European Gothic architecture, and are notably more primitive (for instance, they seem to have no internal plumbing). It's also backwards technologically and culturally, and almost everyone is impoverished and unfriendly since the loss of their national treasure.
The setting of Mary Shelley's Frankenhole is simply referred to as "somewhere in Eastern-Europe."
Roger Ramjet featured a country with the Punny Name of Runovia.
Ptomania was the country of original of the title treasure in The Hair Bear Bunch episode "Gobs Of Gobaloons." The bears discover the treasure but they can't spend it because it was stolen from the country's treasury.
In Princess Natasha, Zoravia is a small European kingdom that is half quaint tourist trap, half technological utopia.
In the obscure Canadian series Weird Years, the Dorkovitch family (the stars of the show) are immigrants from Kryobia. To give you an idea of what Kryobia is supposed to be like, the nation's tourist slogan is "Our People are Always Revolting".
The Animaniacs episode "King Yakko" has Anvilania, the tiny anvil-shaped anvil-exporting country Yakko is suddenly king of, and its rival Dunlikus.
    Real Life 
Poldavia (Poldévie) was a fictional country invented by a French journalist who was a member of a far-right organization in 1929. Its supposed representatives wrote letters to French Senators to ask them to intervene in a Civil War supposed to take place in their country. The prank mainly targeted radical-leftist and anticlerical Senators. The politician Marcel Déat in an editorial printed on May 4, 1939, wrote that Danzig was not worth fighting a war over and that French farmers had no desire to die for the Poldavians ("mourir pour les Poldèves"). Déat went on to become a prominent fascist politician in Vichy and occupied France. Poldavia was also cited as the "birth place" of Nicolas Bourbaki.
A real life counterpart of Ruritania could be some of the East European unrecognized nations such as Transnistria (officially part of Moldova) or Abkhazia (officially part of Georgia): They have their own government, money and so on. Still, they don't appear on any official diplomatic map. Or also territories that claim nation status at some point or another (and thus, become the center of the world's attention when civil wars break there). Some have since become independent (eg. Kosovo), others failed to do so (eg. Chechnya).
All of the Caucasus is kind of a Ruritania.
Ernest Gellner's history book Nations and Nationalisms explains the origin of nationalism through the hypothetical example of a place called Ruritania (probably based on the Czechs, Serbs, and/or Slovaks), a culturally-distinct province in the equally-hypothetical empire of Megalomania (which is probably meant to be the Austro-Hungarian Empire). Gellner then describes how Ruritania might become an independent nation-state by inventing a national tradition based on various folk cultures (which is what most of them did), or might try to assimilate into mainstream Megalomania. We should note that Gellner was a German-speaking Czech Jew from Prague, and was in a position to certainly know about the Austro-Hungarian Empire and its ethnic makeup.
Inventing Ruritania: The Imperialism of the Imagination, by Serbian author Vesna Goldsworthy, is one attempt to prove how the perceived Ruritania is essentially an offensive "Balkan-sploitation": the various Southern, Central and Eastern European peoples are turned into a silly Flanderization, an exotic setting full of funny and silly ethnic stereotypes, where all the many problems are exclusively their own fault, and which contrasts with self-perceived "civilization" and "high culture" of the Western audience.
Needless to say, Eastern and Central Europe is a pretty big place and ranges from big cities like Prague or Warsaw, which are about as developed as those in Western Europe (if a bit smaller) to backwater villages in which this is almost Truth in Television. As for political situation, it varies - in Russia, not much progress was made in terms of democratization, and don't even ask about Belarus, but many other countries are fully democratic, even if the corruption is often high, and despite 2010's seeing a rise of fashy elements in politics and dictator-ish strongmen such as Viktor Orbán. Relations between neighboring countries vary from extremely friendly (Czech Republic and Slovakia, for example, have spend the better part of 20th century together and think of each other as kind of geographic siblings) to extremely hostile (like countries of former Yugoslavia, or Russia with all the rest of former soviet republics). In regards to financial situation, it is very much not as bad as in the case Greece (and when Greece asked for financial support, countries of Eastern Europe tended to drag their feet the most). And Eurovision? They mostly take it too seriously for their own good...

Mayor of a Ghost Town
Something happens to a city. It could be an evacuation or a disaster. Whoever's left over will now have the run of the city, and they can use its resources to attempt to communicate with the outside world, try to find more survivors or just have fun without anyone to stop them from breaking the rules.
Frequently found in a Cozy Catastrophe. Compare The Aloner.
Anime and Manga 
One of the countries that Kino encounters is the last remaining member of a "democracy" that voted by majority. Ultimately, everyone else had voted each other to death until one man and his dying wife were left.
    Comic Books 
Robin: When Tim starts looking into the Eldritch Abomination that completely derailed his attempt to track a gun runner he comes a town where most of the population had been slaughtered by the creature and the single remaining hold out had grabbed up what weapons and tools he could to arm himself and put defenses around his house.
    Film 
I Am Legend follows this premise.
The Quiet Earth: With apparently no-one else left on Earth, protagonist Zac Hobson sets a radio station to emit a message in case anyone's out there, moves to a mansion, raids shopping centres, plays with train sets in a store- and then the real trains- cracks up, starts dressing up in women's clothes and declares himself emperor of the world before an audience of cardboard cutouts. (He gets better.)
The French movie Seuls Twonote  is about two people waking up in a completely deserted Paris.
In The Omega Man, Charlton Heston doesn't take much advantage of this trope, since he spends his time hunting zombies. However, his love interest, Lisa, likes to go "shopping" in abandoned department stores. At least until she gets The Virus and does her Face–Heel Turn.
In Night of the Comet, the two protagonist teenage girls spend much of their time looting abandoned department stores for cool clothes.
The main cast from 28 Days Later have a Hope Spot moment raiding food from an abandoned store, and in the first scenes, Jim absconds with a bag full of soda cans from a derelict vending machine. On a darker note, since the original owners are dead, the soldiers have set up camp in an abandoned country estate, and govern from there, at one point forcing the girls to dress up in the clothing of the former lady of the house for the pleasure of the men about to rape them.
In one of the short films made with the sequel, a man left in this situation kills himself out of loneliness. As he's dying he hears the helicopters returning.
The protagonists of both the original Dawn of the Dead (1978) and the remake do this on a smaller scale with a shopping mall. In fact, this is largely the point (of the older movie, at least).
The heroes of Zombieland don't limit themselves to one town, but they raid grocery stores for food (in search of the elusive Twinkie), trash a store just for fun and crash for a while in Bill Murray's mansion (which isn't as abandoned as they thought).
In Freddy's Dead: The Final Nightmare, there are no children or teens left in Springwood, yet the adults still put on a pitiful show of a town fair, complete with kiddie entertainments no kids are around to enjoy. The school and orphanage are likewise left to fall apart, each with a crackpot staff member left behind to pretend they still have kids to teach or care for.
In Winnie-the-Pooh: Springtime with Roo, Rabbit (in a Yet Another Christmas Carol) finds himself in a Bad Future where he's the only one left in the Hundred Acre Wood after his friends had enough of his Neat Freak personality and moved away.
    Literature 
The infamous Yi City of Mo Dao Zu Shi has Xue Yang, a Psychopathic Manchild who killed the remaining residents or poisoned them with corpse powder, turning them into living corpses. He remained in the city because it was where he'd lived happily with his nemesis-turned-object of affection (only possible because he'd taken advantage of his enemy's newfound blindness to conceal his identity) for some years, but when his identity had been revealed, he'd emotionally tormented the object of his affections until his victim was Driven to Suicide.
The Stand had one bomb-happy character blow up oil storage silos for the explosions, since no-one was going to stop him.
Hell, half of the secondary characters, especially those left in NYC, go wild with their fantasies. One guy runs into two survivors in the park and tells them he's gleeful the world is gone. Why? There's no one left to stop him from jerking off on home plate at Yankee Stadium. This is one of the few relatively benign examples.
Ofelia from Remnant Population stays behind after the rest of her colony is moved to another planet, and she is left as the only human on the entire world. She's not completely alone, though...
The protagonist of the post-pandemic London of John Christopher's novel Empty World.
This trope is a plot point in the zombie-apocalypse novel World War Z. When The Cavalry finally arrives in some reclaimed towns, they are never quite sure if the Mayor has all his or or her marbles.
Jadis, the Last Queen of Charn from The Chronicles of Narnia. In The Magician's Nephew, we find out that she single-handedly eradicated every other lifeform in her universe because her sister had raised a rebellion against her queenhood; with her sister's army at the door, she proved herself to be a sore loser. She then magically preserved herself as a statue until the heroes accidentally freed her, then hitched a ride with them to Earth and ultimately to Narnia, where she became known as the White Witch.
Played literally in the children's book Ghost Town Adventure. A family on a road trip comes across Ruby, a Ghost Town with exactly one resident - Mayor Abe Winters. It had been a thriving town during a gold rush but when the gold dried up everyone else in town abandoned the place. Abe figures that even though his term expired he's still the mayor until he gets voted out.
Up to Eleven in A Planet for the President, where the President of the United States is the only survivor of a global pandemic caused by an artificial virus deliberately spread by the American government as part of a Depopulation Bomb plot that should have not affected the American people (he only survives because his vaccine was the only one that was not faulty).
    Live Action TV 
Red Dwarf follows this premise. A radiation leak kills the entire crew of a ship the size of a city. The only survivors were an illegal pet cat, sealed away from the radiation in the ship's cargo hold, and Dave Lister, a flunky mechanic who was in stasis as punishment for bringing the cat on board. The ship's onboard AI automatically quarantines itself from other ships, until three million years pass, long enough for the radiation to decay to safe levels, before releasing Dave out of stasis, and explaining what had happened. The rest of the main cast are rounded out by Rimmer, a hologram of Dave's dead roommate, and the Cat, a humanoid that evolved from Dave's pet cat during his time in stasis.
On MST3K, the robots are asked what they would do in this situation. Servo would put bricks on accelerators and drive cars off cliffs all day. Crow would put on football pads and dive through pane glass windows up and down main street.
My Name Is Earl had a flashback episode where the main characters think that Y2K has killed everyone else in town so they move into a supermarket and each of them claims part of the store as their own personal domain.
Burgess Meredith's character in the Twilight Zone episode "Time Enough At Last" finds himself in this position after surviving a nuclear attack by virtue of being in a bank vault at the time, much to his pleasure (at first).
The titular The Last Man on Earth spends the first episode having fun using the town of Tucson as his own personal playground. The second episode has other survivor Carol elect him President. After the other Phil shows, they have another election against Old Phil's will. New Phil wins.
The Sarah Jane Adventures has an episode where Rani and Clyde find themselves alone in, as far as they can tell, the whole world.
Doctor Who touches on this in the episode "Hell Bent" where an immortal woman known as Me is, for a time, the last sentient being in the universe. It is implied that she spends her time watching the last of the stars die while sitting next to an empty chair and a chessboard, with no one to play with.
    Toys 
BIONICLE plays with this in the description of what the Toa Of Light was flying around doing in other dimensions. The villanious/Heel–Face Turn applying Toa Tuyet in an alternate dimension specifically ignored and never mentioned outside of descriptions of said alternate dimension) specifically says (while contemplating drowning everyone in the alternate universe) that she would be ruling over an empire of corpses.
    Video Games 
The mayor of Shanbar in Return to Zork. The eastern half of his town has completely disappeared, the western half is empty except for himself and three other survivors, and you're the first visitor he's seen in ages.
Dragon Quest VII has this happen to Suifu in the Penal Colony where all the refugees/prisoners from Dharma Shrine are being held. Once the problems are solved, he finds himself alone, ruefully admitting that he'll never enjoy the sort of power and position he was able to claim for himself there.
Suikoden V's Tageyl stands on the verge of this: Lordlake has fallen out of favor with the queen and is slowly dying without any water.
The Legend of Zelda:
King Daphnes Nohansen Hyrule from The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker is the only person left in Hyrule after it got sealed beneath the Great Sea, using his position to guide Link and awaken Zelda. He decides to use the Triforce to drown Hyrule and himself in order to save Link and Zelda and defeat Ganon.
Impaz from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, the last inhabitant of the Hidden Village, who turned down a chance to escape from her Bulblin-occupied village so she could give the Ancient Sky Book to the messenger of the heavens (a.k.a. Link).
While it's ambiguous how heavily inhabited the Great Plateau was before the Great Calamity a century ago in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (some of the structures are implied to have fallen into ruins well before that, and there's no easy path to and from the Plateau in relation to the rest of Hyrule), the Old Man is nonetheless the only friendly character there to greet and guide Link after the latter's awakening from the Shrine of Resurrection. He turns out to be the ghost of King Rhoam Bosphoramus Hyrule, having waited that whole century for Link to recover from being Only Mostly Dead and point the hero toward his quest to defeat Calamity Ganon.
Shade is not the last survivor of desertified resort town Oasis in Borderlands 2. There's plenty of colorful characters who are totally alive and not mummified corpses. They have such great conversations while not slowly dying of thirst. Please stay!
One of the most dramatic examples is Andrew Ryan in BioShock; even as Rapture slowly began to break apart, its people going mad and slaughtering each other in its halls, he remained convinced that it would all be well and good with just a little more time...
Most fortresses in Dwarf Fortress will eventually suffer catastrophes and get wiped out, but if one of the inhabitants became a vampire, they're likely to survive and keep the fortress going as the sole inhabitant, as they requires no sustenance.
In ''The Last of Us, Joel and Ellie end up in the ruins of Lincoln, Massachusetts, where Joel's "friend" Bill lives. He is the only remaining resident and even refers to Lincoln as "MY town".
    Web Original 
Played for laughs in Homestuck. The Wayward Vagabond, a non-human wanderer of post-apocalyptic Earth, is fascinated enough by the idea of democracy that he becomes a mayor over a stash of cans.
It's less humorous now that fans are speculating he did this as a coping mechanism after two entire armies he was leading were slaughtered in front of him in a matter of seconds, leaving him as the only survivor.
    Western Animation 
Named for the The Simpsons episode in which Homer divides Springfield into two towns, Old Springfield and New Springfield. When Homer erects a wall to this effect, the citizens of New Springfield quickly realize that they suddenly have no means of obtaining supplies. All but the Simpson family climb over the border, leaving a disgruntled Homer alone, to which Bart says 'Face it Homer, you're mayor of a ghost town!'
Homer also has the run of Springfield for about half a Treehouse of Horror segment, after a Neutron Bomb kills all the people. And turns many others into cannibal zombies.
Moe became Emporer of the starved lawless en-domed Springfield by chucking grenades at anyone who challenges his authority in The Simpsons Movie.
Pinky and the Brain, when Brain manages to take over the world by luring all its inhabitants to the doppelganger planet Chia Earth (which is made of papier-mache). In the end, he goes so mad with the boredom of ruling an empty planet that he decides to put forward a bunch of bills, then use his presidential powers to veto them. For fun.
This is how an alternate-future version of Vandal Savage has lived for thirty millennia in the Justice League episode, "Hereafter."
In the Grand Finale of Avatar: The Last Airbender, Ozai apoints Azula as the new Fire Lord while he goes off to end the war (and gives himself a new title denoting supreme ruler of the world). Azula's increasing instability and paranoia means she ends up gradually banishing every member of the Royal Household (and, possibly, everyone in the Fire Nation capital) other then the few people needed to coronate her.
An episode of Duckman had the whole town perform an "emergency drill", only to get trapped in the shelter underground. Only Duckman (who slept through the alarm) and a deaf woman (who couldn't hear it) remain, convinced they are the last people alive. So Duckman engages in his every hedonistic desire; tooling around in a motorcycle, stealing things, blowing up buildings, and unknowingly causing hell for the people trapped below.
WALL•E provides a robotic example, with the ghost town being the abandoned, overpolluted Earth.
    Real Life 
Played literally for six French communes which still legally exist and thus have a mayor named by the prefect in spite of being totally destroyed during World War I.
Rotten boroughs: Until 1832, some British MPs had constituencies with very few voters, due to the towns having declined centuries earlier. The most notorious examples included Old Sarum, Wiltshire, which had only seven voters and no standing houses, and Dunwich, Suffolk, which was an important city in medieval times but had since been largely erased by coastal erosion to the point that, while it once had half a dozen churches, only half of one remained standing. Meanwhile, formerly unimportant little towns that had expanded to cities of twenty thousand people or more had no MPs at all. It was another seventy years before Parliament thought of creating a civil service department to periodically adjust constituency boundaries based on census data rather than waiting until the issue was threatening to cause civil unrest, but to their credit they never let it get quite that bad again.
The western USA has a few mostly abandoned settlements which would no longer appear on the map if not for one or two remaining residents.
Monowi, Nebraska is the only incorporated municipality in the United States with such a population. It's one resident is the town mayor, librarian, and bartender.
The smallest community in Germany to have its own mayor is Hallig Gröde, an island in the North Sea, population 9. It used to have a bit more people on it in the past. In 1825 there were 90 people. Papers love to interview the "mayor" for tourism pieces.
In order to be able to take the maxmum amount of taxes in the State Treasury from the Federal government, who wanted to create a nuclear waste storage center, the government of Nevada created in 1987 the county of Bullfrog out of Nye County, around the completly unhabited Yucca Mountain, where the waste had to be sent, and set the land value tax to the maximum. This county, deprived of any population and infrastructure such as roads, had its seat at Carson City, the capital, and its officials were named by the central government. In 1989 the Nevada Supreme Court ruled the fact Bullfrog County had no resident made it unable to have a representative government, making the creation of this county unconstitutional.

Sliding Scale of Video Game Objectives
In any Video Game, your primary goal is to survive to the end. How much else you need to do between here and there, on the other hand, is entirely up to the game developer.
Objectives in a Video Game or Tabletop RPG may be described in a variable amount of detail; the variety of such specificity goes along a sliding scale thusly:
Win - The most basic type of Objective, this is when the only objective is to survive the level to the end. Since "Win" is the basic goal of every game ever, that makes it essentially a Meta Game.
Doom — just run through the game, shooting anything that gets in your way, and reach the exit.
Flower. Although since you can't die, it's really only "reach the end of the level."
Broad - One step up from "Win", this is a mission objective which is so broad in scope or definition that it may seem to lose all practical meaning. For more recent games, this is usually tempered by morphing into a Sequential Objective; in most cases, you may have to accomplish specific tasks in order to proceed, but these will not be listed as actual Objectives.
Jedi Outcast had mission objectives like "Investigate the Outpost". Ooookay. There were usually specific tasks you had to accomplish, but you had to figure out for yourself exactly what those tasks might be.
Myst literally drops you into a new universe without any instructions whatsoever. Myst III: Exile and Uru (from later in the story) function in much the same way.
Some sports games might fall into this, if you're in a "league" and your orverarching goal is some kind of tournament; your base objective is still "Win".
Boss Battles would probably fall under this tent.
FIND STRELOK. KILL STRELOK. You can do this in the first couple of minutes of the game if you wish.
Task-Based - The game actually gives the player something to do, and tells you what to do (though usually not how to do it). These can typically be fulfilled in any order, unlike Sequential Objectives, but failure of any one Objective usually results in a Non Standard Game Over.
GoldenEye (1997)
Perfect Dark
Syphon Filter
Riven (the sequel to Myst) falls in this category ("Find Katherine, capture Gehn using this book, signal Atrus"). So does Myst IV: Revelation ("Keep an eye on Yeesha"), although in this case the instructions are not only vague but actively misleading...
The SNES version of Alien³.
Sequential - Related to Task-Based, Sequential Objectives are, as the name implies, a series of tasks in which one action leads directly to the next, or a given task may not be possible until certain other tasks are completed. This is not necessarily (and, indeed, rarely is) because the sequence of objectives together forms a story arc; typically, it's just a case of a newer, unrelated objective appearing only after previous tasks have been fulfilled. Often a sign of a Pinball Protagonist.
Most James Bond-inspired games following GoldenEye (1997) take the "sequentially revealed objectives" route.
So does Star Wars Battlefront 2
Revenge Of The Sith features specific objectives which pop up at just the moment you need to accomplish them.
Supreme Commander combines this with a "sequential map". As objectives are completed, new ones will appear in an area of map that is suddenly made available that the player could not see before.
The Splinter Cell series regularly had objectives that didn't show up until you completed other, earlier objectives, combined with objectives that didn't occur until something happened in the world outside of your mission, which your Mission Control reacted to.
Halo.
Dead Space. "Thanks for fixing X, Isaac, but now Y is broken! Fix it!"
The Assault gamemode of Unreal Tournament is based around a mixture of this and Win: the attackers have to accomplish several objectives in the specified order to win while the defenders merely have to hold them off until time's up. Then the roles are reversed and the former defenders have to beat the time of the former attackers and/or (in UT2004) accomplish more objectives than the former attackers.
L.A. Noire gives the player specific objectives only when/if the player finds specific, relevant clues during an investigation. Mostly of the "Find [Person X]" or "Investigate [Location Z]" variety.
Quest - Standard in RPGs. There is one large overarching goal (other than "Win", that is), and several sub-quests, which may or may not directly relate to the Quest at first glance; or, the overarching Objective may be split into several "tasks". Quest-style Objectives, especially sub-quests/tasks, often overlap with Sequential Objectives.
of course, RPGs
Tron 2.0
Deus Ex
Optional - again, Exactly What It Says on the Tin. These are objectives which will prove worthwhile in the end, but are not game breakers if they are not achieved. They can fall into any of the categories listed above.
Project: Snowblind
Perfect Dark Zero
Fallout 2 was notable because almost the entire game was optional. If you could avoid having your level 2 Chosen One's head squished like a grape from the enemies you find there, you can go straight from the tutorial level to the Enclave bases.
In ARMA 2, objectives will present themselves in missions and you can choose right then and there to accept or ignore them. Completing them effects how the campaign does overall, especially in regards to the disposition of the locals.
Each level in Painkiller has an optional sub-objective specific to that level, which rewards the player with a new card in the Black Tarot deck. These objectives generally range from weapon restrictions (beat the level using only the Painkiller or the Stake Gun) to combat challenges (beat the level while keeping your HP above 50, or don't collect any armor in the level) to fetch quests (find every ammo drop or secret in the level).
Yume Nikki does have objectives (which can be done in almost any order) and an ending, but these are basically incidental to the game's true appeal: wandering around aimlessly through the protagonist's creepy, depressing dream world.
Most missions in Ace Combat 3: Electrosphere had a hidden optional objective, which was needed for a "Mission Accomplished" result (otherwise, it would be "Mission Over" or "Mission Failed"). "MA" wasn't always a desired outcome, however, as some missions were only available if the respective previous mission was completed with an "MO".
Most of the memories in Assassin's Creed: Revelations have an optional objective needed for "full synchronization" (100% as opposed to 50%). 100% synch of an entire memory sequence unlocked cheat codes, while a full synch in all sequences earned you an achievement.
This trope can also show up in other media, normally in a Mission Briefing.
For those that cannot be won at all, see Endless Game.

We Sell Everything
"Slug killers, killer slugs, road drills, ear plugs..."
— 'We Sell Everything', Leon Rosselson
Ever wonder what those stores that buy anything do with the random stuff they accumulate?
It might be a little drug store down by the corner. It might be an expansive, labyrinthine mega-mart so large it has its own zip code. However, when you walk in, you can be assured of one thing: It sells everything. Absolutely everything. (Except, if you happen to be a Butt-Monkey, the one thing you're looking for.)
It sells things you would never expect to see in the same store together—such as, say, baseball bats, frying pans, instant ramen, and cold remedies. The smaller the store, the more specialized you would expect it to be, so the more unlikely this seems—why is a tiny general store out in the middle of the sticks offering fine art?
Sometimes, the stuff for sale there shatters the bound of all logic—where on earth (or the moon) did they get their hands on a lunar lander? Lord only knows who their suppliers are. If the shop is little and out-of-the-way, it may come bundled with a possibly insane, Q-like proprietor who is quick to suggest all manner of goods to his or her customers. If the shop is enormous, expect to need a map just to find your way to the microwave popcorn.
Also quite common in video games, due to the fact that the gameplay tends to be sculpted around the hero's quest. If you find a shopping district full of these then you are in a Bazaar of the Bizarre. Oftentimes, even the far reaches of the unknown are populated with tiny tent stores that boast a huge selection despite no one shopping there (in fact, being so far into the game, they're likely to have more stuff). If all auction houses, stock exchanges and brick & mortar stores are this regardless of location then you probably have an MMO on your hand.
Contrast with Severely Specialized Store. Compare with We Buy Anything.
  Advertising 
In a series of Kool-Aid commercials, Kool-Aid man promotes his Wacky Warehouse Mall (the wackiest mall of all), which includes the Anything And More Store, which has anything and more.
    Anime & Manga 
The rental shop Nine Dragons in Nerima Daikon Brothers always has what the main characters need to take down the episode's target, which over the course of the series included bazookas, vegetable costumes, a heat-seeking enema, a drill machine, a VHS of Dog of Flanders, and a golden microphone, among other things.
The Kourindou, ran by Rinnosuke, in Touhou Doujins. He sells a lot of stuff, usually taken from the world outside the boundaries of Gensokyo (Earth itself). Justified, though. When your supplier is Yukari Yakumo, getting a hold of miscellaneous objects is very easy.
In the anime Magical Play, there is an episode with a market were you buy anything, and when you run out of money, theres a stand that sells money too!
    Comic Books 
Any frontier town's general store in Lucky Luke will sell everything. Lampshaded when Luke has a fistfight with some outlaw in one of them, and the owner lists out loud all the items that get broken.
In another story, the store owner stated that there is a two week delivery time for the impossible.
In a Tintin comic, the first appearance of merchant Oliveira da Figueira somewhere in the Middle East is announced by natives as "The white man who sells everything". He then proceeds to sell Tintin a random collection of objects, including for instance skis and a parrot.
In a Spirou and Fantasio comic happening in Africa, the heroes discover a shop in the middle of the jungle, whose drunken owner claims he can sell everything. They are indeed able to find camping gear, guns with hypodermic needles, and yellow paint in his shop.
The Scott Pilgrim comics feature a battle scene at Honest Ed's, a multi level discount store that takes up an entire city block in downtown Toronto.It's a real place.
A "The Lighter Side Of..." cartoon in MAD had the owner of a drugstore extolling the range of goods his store sold, including aeroplanes. The customer then said he wanted to get a prescription filled to which the owner's response was "What are you? Some kind of wise guy?".
Store Wars had Bloggs' corner shop, which sold anything and everything and was next door to a Superstore which did no business as a result.
This trope is played with in the 2000AD Judge Dredd stories. People in the mega-city live in huge skyscraper "blocks" each of which is effectively a self-contained city including all shops and services ever required. You can be born, live and die in the same "block" and never have to leave it.
In Li'l Abner, there was entrepreneur Available Jones, who was always available (for a price) and could obtain anything a paying customer wanted, from safety pins to battleship. He also provided many services, including watching babies. (Dry—5¢, Other kinds—10¢). Of course, his most valuable service was his literally stunning cousin, Stupefyin' Jones.
In Achille Talon, there is Vincent Poursan (a Pun on "cent pour cent", which means 100%). He can sell practically anything to the protagonist, though it is always improbably expensive (and he's not a crook: he tells that what he sells is incredibly expensive, and he's proud of it, such as in this memorable quote when he's about to sell Talon a medication supposed to heal amnesia: "the prince itself shall be forever carved in your memory"). It is alternated with New Job as the Plot Demands (sometimes Poursan owns a shop that sells anything, and other times he happens to own the precise shop Talon is going to need).
    Fan Works 
The store Absolutely Everything from Fallout: Equestria. It lives up to its name, and if its propertier, the ghoul Derpy Hooves, finds anything it doesn't sell, she will endeavor to correct that.
In The Keys Stand Alone: The Soft World, the four find a store called Anything, where you can buy any nonmagical item (you tell the proprietor what you want, and he goes in the back and gets it). George twice buys a guitar there. The four wonder how such things are created, especially since a junky guitar costs exactly the same as a really good one.
In a variation, for meals they mostly rely on the worldwide chain of fast-food joints called Infinity, where you can get any food that you ask for. This makes it easy for them to follow their various dietary preferences, as well as avoid the weird foods that the Geddies and other outworlders eat.
    Films — Live-Action 
The drive-through mall scene in The Blues Brothers.
Jake: There's pants and burgers.
Elwood: Yeah, lots of space in this mall.
Jake: Disco pants and haircuts.
Elwood: Yeah... Baby clothes.
Jake: This place has got everything.
Elwood: The new Oldsmobiles are in early this year.
Idiocracy's Costco actually has its own subway system and university.
In Tremors, Chang's general store sells a sufficient range of products that when Rhonda loses her pants and shoes, replacements in her size can be found right there on the shelves. This, for a shop that supplies a valley that's home to less than twenty people. Probably justified because it's literally the only store for miles around.
    Literature 
In Last Chance To See, Douglas Adams describes shopping in Zaire:
Most of the other shops were in fact impossible to identify. When a shop appeared to sell a mixture of ghetto blasters, socks, soap and chickens, it didn't seem unreasonable to go in and ask if they'd got any toothpaste or paper stuck away on one of their shelves as well, but they looked at me as if I was completely mad. Couldn't I see that this was a ghetto blaster, socks, soap and chicken shop?

Eventually, after trailing up and down the street for half a mile in either direction, I found both of them at a tiny street stall which also turned out to sell biros, airmail envelopes and cigarette lighters, and in fact seemed to be so peculiarly attuned to my needs that I was tempted to ask if they had a copy of New Scientist as well.
Robert Asprin's Myth Adventures series has the Bazaar at Deva, which sells "anything you can imagine and a few things you can't." Deva is a planet/dimension occupied by the Lawful Evil Deevels who specialize in commerce and trade. Like Coruscant meets Wal-Mart, the entire planet is the bazaar. One hopes they made the moon a parking lot or something. The most bizarre thing the characters ever bought there is probably their headquarters, which is a small tent with the interior of a mansion; only the entrance is on Deva, while the rest is located in a parallel dimension populated by Friendly Neighborhood Vampires.
Deveels aren't so much Lawful Evil as they are fantasy-style Ferengi.
Also, the Bazaar does not actually take up the entire planetary surface. It's just that there's no longer anything else worth noting on the planet (such as signs of life, bodies of water or landmarks), and all dimensional coordinates to go to Deva get remapped to in-Bazaar locations. Between this and the way the entire Bazaar shifts about, no ordinary visitor would ever become aware that the place has a boundary, and nobody in Deva and not in the Bazaar is likely to stay that way for long.
In one of his books Dave Barry has this to say...
In Los Angeles, I went into a Long's drugstore where the product on display at the cash register was: a sofa. Really. Suspended ominously right behind the cashier's head was a full-sized sofa, priced at $499. Apparently, this is for the harried shopper who gets to the cashier and goes, "Let's see ... dental floss, aspirin, and ... Ohmigosh! I almost forgot the sofa!"
The Last Chance General Store in A Series of Unfortunate Events, although (as the name implies) it is a smallish shop in the middle of nowhere, fits this trope. They even have telegraph service as well as fiber-optic cables.
In Dav Pilkey's Captain Underpants, when the main characters need fabric softener, they go to the nearby supermarket, named "Everything Except" something they can't remember. It's Everything Except Fabric Softener, of course. As the name implies, there's only one thing you can't buy there.
In The Pendragon Adventure, Quillian's Blok put everyone else out of business, and took over Quillian.
Tom from Deltora Quest sells "everything for the traveller". His wares include (but are far from limited to) such weird things as slippers for sore feet, a pipe that blows glowing bubbles, beads that start fires when broken, objects that can swallow up water and expand to create temporary bridges across bodies of water, and much more. When the protagonists first visit his store, they have to desperately restrain themselves from wasting all their money. Naturally, almost everything they do buy ends up being a Chekhov's Gun.
At one point in the Emberverse-series, Mike and Signe visit a local inn/trading post. They ask if a number of rugs are for sale and the proprietor answers that the only things in his trading post that aren't for sale are his employees, their personal weapons and the land the trading post is on.
    Live-Action TV 
Risky on Everybody Hates Chris always has whatever the characters are looking for and can be purchased from the trunk of his car or from the inside of his jacket. The purchases usually end badly for the consumer; for instance, scalped tickets to a basketball game or concert are usually in nosebleed sections or a toaster will burn the toast.
The 80's British sketch-comedy Assaulted Nuts did a bit set in a small dingy shop whose owner (played by Wayne Knight, of all people) explicitly offered this service: supply absolutely anything you need, and if he doesn't have it, you can marry his wife. A customer tries to prove him wrong by asking for ever-more-outlandish things, which are all instantly produced. (One being a multilayer cake supported by plastic frogs topped with a model of the crown of Scotland.) The owner finally gets fed up, and asks if the customer actually wants something. The customer asks for a can of beans. The owner sighs, and his hideous wife appears, eating the beans.
On Northern Exposure, the general store seemed to have everything (so long as Joel wasn't looking for something New York-ish). "Left-handed noodle strainer? Let me look in the back."
Corner Gas has a store that sells both liquor and insurance of all things. The eponymous store also is pretty well stocked for a gas station.
Truth in Television: The city of Rouleau where the show was filmed really has such a store!
In the Norwegian spoof adventure series Brødrene Dal, the local gas station can easily provide you with everything you need to build a time machine. Hilarious in Hindsight, since the series was produced in the early eighties, and since then, most Norwegian gas stations has become all-purpose convenience stores that just happens to sell gas as well.
The eponymous Puttnam's Prairie Emporium was a five-and-dime store that sold absolutely anything you could think of; one of its patrons would come in and ask for outlandish products like mosquito kneepads, which Mr. Puttnam would always have available.
Food and Stuff from Parks and Recreation.
Much of the Sliders episode "Season's Greedings" takes place in a mall that contains not only shops but also housing, schools, hospitals, etc.
The Monty Python's Flying Circus episode "Michael Ellis," one of the few episodes with a single plot, derives much of its humor from the fact that it takes place in such a store. Items for sale include but are not limited to domestic ants, working flamethrowers, atomic weaponry, cosmetic surgery, Victorian poetry, endings and Dodgy Toupees. The store is a parody of Harrods, mentioned in the "Real Life" section below.
The eponymous shop in Mopatop's Shop sells, in Mopatop's own words, "everything that you could ever think or dream of", including stuff that you would not reasonably expect to find being sold at a store, such as rivers, hot and cold, and even fictional items such as lettuce that hums.
In Trial & Error, the frozen yogurt shop in East Peck is also the local forgery store.
    Music 
The eponymous shop of "Weird Al" Yankovic's song "Hardware Store", in which is likely the most over-the-top example of this trope:
Weird Al: Would you look at all that stuff ... They've got allen wrenches, gerbil feeders, toilet seats, electric heaters, trash compactors, juice extractors, shower rods and water meters, walkie-talkies, copper wires, safety goggles, radial tires, BB pellets, rubber mallets, fans and dehumidifiers, picture hangers, paper cutters, waffle irons, window shutters, paint removers, window louvres, masking tape and plastic gutters, kitchen faucets, folding tables, weather stripping, jumper cables, hooks and tackle, grout and spackle, power foggers, spoons and ladles, pesticides for fumigation, high-performance lubrication, metal roofing, water proofing, multi-purpose insulation, air compressors, brass connectors, wrecking chisels, smoke detectors, tire guages, hamster cages, thermostats and bug deflectors, trailer hitch demagnetizers, automatic circumcisersnote , tennis rackets, angle brackets, Duracells and Energizers, soffit panels, circuit breakers, vacuum cleaners, coffee makers, calculators, generators, matching salt and pepper shakers!
Another example of this trope being the same singer's "eBay", which features examples of would-be strange purchases on the eponymous website. (See the Real Life section for the sort of thing he's sending up.)
The setting of "Dixie Rose Deluxe's Honky Tonk, Feed Store, Gun Shop, Used Car, Beer, Bait, BBQ, Barbershop, Laundromat" by Trent Willmon.
    Podcasts 
Port Providence from Jemjammer features a store called "Stuff". It sells basically everything, though predominantly antiques, and is large enough that Aelgfifu needs to roll a Survival check in order to help the party get out safely.
    Radio 
In one of Denis Norden's monologues on My Word, he recalls being a Blitz Evacuee to a village with one shop that sold everything. He well remembers the proprietress going up and down the ladder to get a motorbike or piano from the shelves. She also sold ladders. And shelves.
The John Boy and Billy Big Show occasionally features ads from "JD's 24-Hour Drive-Thru Pawn & Gun Auto Parts Discount Pharmaceutical Adult Gift Bait & Tackle Discount Cigarette Outlet." Its spokesman is a fast-talking huckster who's always pitching a huge variety of items both common and bizarre.
    Tabletop Games 
The campus vending machines in GURPS IOU can distribute almost anything. And we do mean anything.
In Planescape, the Great Bazaar in Sigil is an open-air market place where anything can be found that is not considered contraband in the city. (And very little is.) If you don't actually see it there, there's someone who can get one. A story told by patrons of a popular restaurant in the Clerk's Ward is that the owner was assigned by a superior at his Faction to buy a fresh squid for someone who liked seafood, and ended up ordering an illithid squidship. (He was fortunately able to sell it at profit to a bunch of githyanki exiles who had stolen more money than they knew what to do with, and opened the restaurant with what he had left.)
    Video Games 
In RPGs like Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy, it's common to have a weapon store, an armor store, and an Everything Else store, selling food, healing items, traveling items, collectible items... and occasionally weapons and armor too. Ultima, the granddaddy of them all, had perhaps the most bizarre example in a vehicle store where you could buy horses, boats, flying cars, and starships.
Even the generic weapon shop might qualify for this if one of your party members is an Improbable Weapon User. Depending on the game, you might find musical instruments, an umbrella, shoes, and various sports wares alongside the normal swords, bows, and maces.
Animal Crossing:
Tom Nook's store in the original game. Want your very own asteroid to go along with your new pet gerbil and samurai sword? How about you pick up a can of paint and some medicine on the way up! And don't forget a birthday card for Curt, even though his birthday was a week ago! Their spotlight item announcements take the cake: "Dear shoppers! If you've ever wanted the moon, now's your chance!"
Later games would split up the shops more, for instance moving the clothes and accessories over to the Able Sisters' shop. In New Leaf, there are actually two separate shops that sell furniture: Re-Tail sells used furniture, while the Nooklings' store on Main Street sells new things.
In EarthBound, the drug stores somehow found themselves stocking a lot of non-pharmaceutical items, like baseball bats, frying pans, and broken equipment. Pretty much averted later on in the major cities, where there are large shopping malls which have individual shops with different specialties, of which drugstores with slightly more reasonable stock are a recurring component; obviously the malls still sell everything, but there's a reasonable reason for it this time.
The Elder Scrolls:
Daggerfall averts it. With the exception of General Stores and Pawn Shops, shops will only buy and sell items relevant to their business. So blacksmiths will not buy clothes and jewelers will not buy armor.
Morrowind continues the trend. Shops will only deal in items relevant to them. The exceptions are general traders and pawnbrokers, but they typically have far less gold available for bartering to offset it. Two other major exceptions are the talking Mudcrab Merchant and the talking Scamp, Creeper. They have 10,000 and 5000 gold respectively (the most of any merchants in the vanilla game), and will buy almost anything you attempt to sell them. What they do with said purchased items is never revealed... Additionally, most shops will not do business with you if you have any of the illegal drugs Skooma or Moon Sugar in your inventory.
Skyrim also averts it. Stores will only buy what is relevant to their business. However, if you pick the "Merchant" perk in the Speech skill tree, you can sell any item to any vendor (such as selling produce to a blacksmith, for example.)
The first two Lufia games have a store on Forfeit Island that let you buy back anything you've sold in any other shop in the world. And not only everything you've sold, but also anything you've fed to your pet monsters.
In the main Pokémon games, the biggest city in each region (except Kalos) always has a department store. In RBY, one floor sold the usually-rare evolution stones! Good thing you get an Eevee in Celadon...
Shin Megami Tensei games are often particularly bad about this, since the store that sells EVERYTHING, up to and including voodoo-dolls, ancient coins and magical gems, is a pharmacy. And not a fantasy-ish pharmacy either, the modern-day kind where you'd go to get a refill for your aspirin. And, apparently, everything else you need for basic demon-hunting.
Persona 3 has Paulownia Mall, where there is a police officer who sells armour and weapons, such as guns, bows and swords, to the teenaged protagonist for a modest sum. The game encourages you not to think too much about the implications of a policeman with 'connections' handing over lethal weaponry to underage schoolchildren. He also has a bitchin' selection of maid costumes and swimsuits. The mall also has a pharmacy, but it only sells healing items — the voodoo dolls, magic gems, and whatnot come from the antique store next door, whose owner is versed in some interesting forms of magic (and only accepts precious stones as payment).
Justified in Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey. There isn't a "store" per se, but a materials laboratory aboard the Red Sprite that you take raw materials to, and then "spend" Macca (energy units used by demons as currency) to manufacture equipment. The lab thus becomes an item factory for nearly anything the protagonist could ever need. The reverse is also justified in this manner, because the lab can take the protagonist's items and dispose of the materials to salvage leftover Macca.
Inverted in X-COM, where you are the one who sells everything, from weapons and ammunition to spacecraft and tanks to alien corpses.
Hilariously lampshaded in a fan fiction piece that notes how an underwater base (Terror from The Deep) that had to deal with Lobstermen frequently ordered higher-than-average amounts of butter. Go figure...
Subverted in Sam & Max (first and second seasons, at least.) At Bosco's Inconvenience, Sam asks for everything a convenience store would never have, and some things a convenience store should have, but none of it is available. However, Bosco always has in stock one arcanely useless item necessary to solving a puzzle later in the game, for an improbable sum that Sam will acquire by solving another puzzle.
But in the final episode of season one, Sam asks Bosco for items that would've resolved the problems in all previous episodes, and it turns out Bosco has all of them! If only they'd asked sooner...
Besides the usual RPG fare We Sell Everything-ism, Tales of Symphonia has the Lezareno Company, which makes, sells, and does everything. Handcuffs, cologne, iron maidens, trick iron maidens, and more. In addition, it has a disaster-relief branch and is singularly responsible for the existence of its own city/resort, and that's just the stuff that gets mentioned over the course of the two games' stories.
Your shop in Recettear can stock whatever items you can get your hands on, from weapons and armor, to food, to insect traps, slime gel, books, statues, flooring, wallpaper... Gameplay mechanics actually enforce this.
Variously played straight and averted in Fallout: New Vegas: There are a few "general stores" that sell most items, but in small amounts, but most merchants specialize in selling a lot of one thing: guns, medical supplies, food, liquor, are found in greatest quantities in specialty stores that sell only one kind of thing.
Fallout 3 has traveling merchants who specialize in various kinds of equipment, including one whose speciality is... miscellaneous junk. Anything in the game that isn't a weapon, piece of clothing or consumable, Crazy Wolfgang's your guy.
Invoked by Percy in Fallout4.
"Don't know what you're looking for? We have everything!"
Averted in the X-Universe series. Factories will only sell their end product. Equipment docks, trade stations, and shipyards only sell the items on the stock list.
In The Sims Medieval, the Village Shoppe sells various types of food, weapons and equipment, but also sells some quest-specific items. Sometimes, some very weird quest-specific items too. Looking for crab perfume? Well, obviously the village shop has it! (They also buy everything, including pond scum.)
The merchant from Resident Evil 4 will sell you just about anything, but to unlock the really cool stuff you've gotta replay the game. A rocket launcher with unlimited ammunition? Got it. A laser cannon that'll melt the Big Bad when used on the lowest setting? No problem stranga'.
A Knight's Quest for Milk: The "Everything But Milk" store which sells literally everything but milk. This is parodied when Knight asks one of the clerks if they sell a "evil zombie nazi" or a "giant pickle".
    Web Animation 
Homestar Runner: Pretty much anything can be obtained from Bubs's concession stand, including items that are either impractical for a place that small to stock (such as hot tubs or fancy leather chairs) or something that is difficult to imagine anyone ever wanting (such as a hobby kit with only dangerous items inside). Justified because he has the only shop within city limits, as far as the viewers know.
Not to mention that several other operations were based out of the concession stand at different times. Among other things it's also the source of Strong Bad's internet, served as both a veterinary clinic and an (illegal) hospital, the base of shady illegal dealings... in quality goods, and an insurance company.
Inanimate Insanity: If a character has some ridiculously crazy item, you can be sure they got it from Walmart, including items that would definitely not be found in the real life Walmart, like a time machine. OJ lampshades it.
    Web Comics 
MSF High: Fenris runs one of these, called Fenrisco
Mentioned frequently in Gold Coin Comics
Itty Bitty's shop in Kid Radd. Itty Bitty is an NPC from a Final Fantasy- or Ultima-style video game. And like Ultima, one of the items he stores is a fully functional airship (along with infinite supplies of disposable RPG powerups and potions).
Paul Southworths webcomic Krazy Larry featured one of these, that sold literally everything... except walnuts. The name? "Everything But Walnuts". There's a running gag that every single person who comes into the store will invariably be looking for walnuts.
    Western Animation 
Mega-Lo-Mart from King of the Hill.
The ACME company, which the characters of Looney Tunes constantly use products from, stands for 'A Company that Makes Everything'. Possibly a backronym that is actually derived from the Greek akme, meaning "best."
Buy n Large from WALL•E. Their stores could dwarf Idiocracy's version of Costco and their president is CEO of Earth. Heck, their website reveals that they bought the weather (with satellites controlling it) and the direction North (rebranded BnL North).
The characters on Kaeloo buy everything (from bazookas to Love Potion) at an online store (the name of the site is never revealed).
Orange Blossom runs one of these stores in the 2009 Strawberry Shortcake series.
The Stuff-Mart of VeggieTales.
The Wall2Wall-Mart from The Fairly OddParents literally sells EVERYTHING, including military helicopters armed with computer-guided missile-launching systems. Justified by the setting; if kids can wish for anything, what do they do with the non-sentimental stuff when their godparents leave? Also, that world lacks common sense.
Timmy: Aww, come on! Is there anything they don't sell here!?
All-in-One Mart, "the store big enough to swallow your town!", only appeared in one episode of Arthur, but the loudspeaker announcements make it clear that they sell just about everything from bizarre food items to army-surplus jet turbines (the announcer suggests they'd make good house fans).
Clerks: The Animated Series has Jay and Silent Bob enter this profession because they can't sell marijuana on a prime time network show. Typically the merchandise is of some extremely absurd and obscure nature pulled from the endless recesses of Silent Bob's coat. The pilot episode also introduces the Quicker Stop, which is called a convenience store but functions more like a mega-mall.
Kim Possible has Smartymart, which has everything from naked molerats to discount capri pants.
Johnny Bravo has the Dollar Three store, which not only sells everything but sells it for one dollar and three cents. Including komodo dragons.
One of the 1960s Popeye cartoons has a man who happens to find Popeye in the huge store turn to him and say, "Excuse me, sir, can you direct me to the exit? I've been trying to find it for sixteen years."
Phineas and Ferb demonstrates this trope with their quintessential song.
Quest Buy from Star vs. the Forces of Evil is a transdimensional mall that stocks anything anyone from any dimension might want or need. Good luck finding a specific item, though.
    Real Life 
The real Costco is a Real Life example of this.
A somewhat obscure saying goes that you can buy everything you'd ever need at Costco except "the textbooks you study from, the tuxedo or gown you're married in, the house you live in, and the coffin in which you're buried."
Except they do sell coffins.
And wedding gowns! Costco is the place you want to be when there's a Zombie Apocalypse.
Textbooks not being sold there is also debatable.
Big-chain superstores such as Wal-Mart, Target or Tesco often fall under this. A memorable cartoon in Private Eye showed anti-Tesco protestors buying their "No to Tesco" protest signs and T-shirts...from Tesco, while remarking "They really do sell everything!"
Doubly funny when it transpired that this was actually true to some extent - Tesco was selling a campaigner's anti-Tesco book at lower prices than any other supplier, and thus turned a profit from his writing.
A lot of real-world Dollar Stores seem to take a We Sell Everything Crappy approach.
Also suburban "pharmacies" in the United States, which sell grocery staples, office supplies, cheap toys, and seasonal merchandise as well as prescription and OTC drugs, and grooming products. They're basically a modern-day version of general stores. This arguably makes the aforementioned EarthBound example slightly more Truth in Television. Furthermore, pharmacies everywhere in the US all sell cigarettes, and usually sell alcohol (if the laws of the state allow it). CVS eventually stopped selling cigarettes when they asked themselves why, as a health-and-wellness store, did they sell something as toxic as cigarettes? They then replaced all the tobacco products with stop-smoking aids. This approach with drug stores in the United States is justified due to laws in some places prohibiting stores from being open on Sundays unless they sell essential items. The easiest such essential item to obtain and sell is medicine, and so these drug stores become one-stop shopping in these towns for people who need (or really want) to buy something on a Sunday. Inversely, major department stores like Target and Walmart installed pharmacies into their locations so they could remain open too.
A lot of college bookstores in the United States typically also sell apparel for that college's sports teams, school supplies, and other common items such as what you'd also find in a convenience store as a service to resident students.
In Japan, otherwise purely electronics stores also sell ties and umbrellas. In Japan, Britain and probably many other places, it's common for every shop to suddenly start selling umbrellas and furry hats as soon as it starts raining or snowing heavily, simply because they know people will run in to the nearest door and buy them.
You'd be surprised what you can find in ethnic stores, especially those Asian supermarkets, like Super 88.
Harrods, an upmarket department store in London, once claimed to sell anything, "from a packet of fern seeds to an elephant". Urban legend has it that a man determined to disprove the claim that Harrod's could get their customers anything went in and asked for an elephant. The sales attendant, completely unfazed, replied with the follow-up question: "Would that be African or Indian, Sir?" They actually sold lions once.
The Tuuri Village Shop in Finland, claimed to be the largest little village store in the world, and sells pretty much anything that one can hope to need. Just for comparison, the village it stands in has 500 residents. The shop gets 5,8 million customers yearly.
eBay
This is an online version of this trope. After a bit of searching, you start to realize that there is someone on Earth selling the most random crap. Selling human beings, weapons, and anything that simply cannot be sold legally is out. Beyond that... It gets weird. Hatching eggs are salable... go on, bid on some Rhode Island Reds, they get Fed Exed to you, and you put them in the incubator and they hatch in a suitable time frame.
You cannot sell purely intangible things, such as your soul, but you can come awfully close— you could, for instance, sell a certificate that turns over ownership of your soul to the buyer. One concrete example of coming pretty close— Hemant Mehta sold the right to determine where he would attend worship services; the book ended up titled "I Sold My Soul On eBay" because of the spin media commentators put on it.
While you can't sell living beings, there was this one guy who actually sold advertising space on his own body in the form of tattoos.
Where on earth (or the moon) did they get their hands on a lunar lander? Well maybe an eBayer has yet to sell a lunar lander, but the sale of a titanium fuel tank◊ from the command module of Apollo 18 begs a similar question.
Even the things that actually can't be sold, people still try regularly; the auctions just get yanked. There are recorded instances of people trying to sell organs, souls, themselves...
100 kilogram pure cocaine. The auction, landing at something like 5000 US dollars, was deleted after 18 hours.
And weirder, a man actually MANAGED to sell his house, his wife and his two children but for what price is unknown. Apparently the Admins overlooked that auction. Hell, forget houses, sometimes people auction off entire TOWNS. And once someone once tried to sell New Zealand. Yes, the whole country of New Zealand.
In July of 2015 one student at the University of Akron in Akron, Ohio who was disgruntled at a recent series of cuts made by the university's president and trustee board, posed as the president and put the entire university campus on sale!
While the sale of relics and other ancient artifacts are fine on eBay assuming that all guidelines are met, the sale of Native American items and other cultural goods is verboten. Not to mention that Catholics took umbrage on what is seen as rampant simony, or the sale of sacred things such as saintly relics, which is in violation of Canon Law. Besides being seen as illegal and sinfulnote , many of them relics are derived from human remains, which cannot be sold on the site.
Soon after Mall Of America opened, and was revealed to include every conceivable sort of shop or service from an attached hotel to classrooms hired out by overcrowded schools, jokes started circulating that all it needed was an obstetrician and a funeral home, and no one would ever have to leave the building.
The Canadian North West Company is a chain of stores in northern Canada and Alaska that sells everything from groceries to Inuit art to furs and general merchandise. Obviously with the remoteness of Alaska and Canada's northern territories, as well as the small population, there's not much point in having larger store chains that all sell different things.
Small towns in general typically have stores that sell a wide variety of things because there aren't enough people in town to specialise.
Ikea — as Jonathan Coulton puts it, "Everything for your home, and if you don't have a home, you can buy one there..."
Amazon is an online version of this trope. Not only are you practically guaranteed to find something in the category of item you're looking for, you're likely to find every make and model of that type of thing currently in production. And if it's not in production, you can buy a used one. This has only gotten more true since they opened their platform up to third parties.
OLX is a different kind of online example with many local versions, where people from all over the country can put up anything they don't want for sale. Chances are, if you're looking for something, someone's most likely selling it. You can even find jobs there. It is very popular in countries such as Portugal.
Shoppers Drug Mart is Canada's largest drugstore chain. They sell seasonal decorations, various fashion accessories (like scarves and jewelry), a decent selection of groceries, magazines and best-selling books, children's toys, small electronic items, and gift cards from various other stores. Some of the stores also have a Canada Post outlet where people can send or pick up packages.
There are still towns off the beaten path where the municipal market fills this role. Sure, fruits and vegetables of all kinds are to be expected, but toiletries? Used cell phones? Horse fodder?

Impending Clash Shot
A Stock Pose common in video games, covers, and art. It features one character about to exchange blows with another one; the angle doesn't matter, but it's usually shot Over the Shoulder.
One side typically looks as if it has an advantage. Other instances feature a sense of symmetry by having the characters balance each other out; whether by having a superior-looking weapon against an intimidating looking "partner", or by having both look like they can kick each other's butt.
This isn't limited to covers and still art. Motion pictures can also make use of this in the form of Hit Stop, where instead of Overcranking and stopping on impact, they stop it when they're about to hit.
Thematically, it emphasizes impending conflict or battle. Sometimes Rule of Cool applies when the battle is ongoing and the fighters are about to unleash fiercer blows to each other.
Closely related to Charge-into-Combat Cut, but instead of cutting into something else, it simply just cuts to end scene altogether if it does cut after the pre-clash. See also Mirrored Confrontation Shot, which is similarly about impending conflict, contrast with Fearful Symmetry, where the participants are already at it. Related to Hit Stop, which is used for emphasizing impact. Compare Versus Character Splash, where character portraits juxtaposed to each others are used as prelude to a fight in Video Games.
 Anime & Manga 
Attack on Titan
This features Eren in mid air with the 3DMG Dual Blades about to clash with the Colossal Titan in volume 1's cover. also present in a different angle in the form of a Hit Stop in the anime's opening,
Besides that, "pre clash" Hit Stops also crop up in other shots within the anime along with Midair Motion Shots.
Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z
At least one per fighting antagonist arc, an episode will have a picture (usually based on a panel from the manga) of either the characters charging into the fray or one if not both at ready fighting stances.
Like before Goku fights King Piccolo in Dragon Ball.
And Freeza charging (flying) with his energy aura at Goku's super Saiyan Kamehameha in DBZ.
This happens often at the end of Mobile Fighter G Gundam episodes, usually after Domon has defeated this week's opponent and next week's comes flying at him.
    Films — Animation 
Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children. During the narration at the beginning. a shot of Cloud wielding his Buster Sword about to clash with Sephiroth with his Masamune was among some of the flashbacks.
Some posters and Blu-ray covers feature an impending clash shot between Cloud and Sephiroth.
    Films — Live-Action 
Rocky III ends with Rocky and Apollo about to punch each other in an unofficial match either to see who'd win or just for the sport.
    Pro Wrestling 
Rather than a poster or still, this how the 2014 NWA Vendetta Pro April Cruel's Day trailer ends, regarding Billy Blade and Kadin Anthony.
    Video Games 
Final Fantasy XIV does this in Stormblood to replicate the trailer duel that the Warrior of Light has with Lyse atop the statue of Rhalgr the Destroyer in Rhalgr's Reach. During the Level 80 Monk quest in Shadowbringers, your Monk trainer and sworn brother, Widargelt, takes her on as a new student to start rebuilding the Fist of Rhalgr and to also give her Boxing Lessons for Superman.
In God Eater Burst, All of the covers have your Player Character weilding the default God Arc against an Aragami. The original pits him against a Vajra and the Burst cover features him against a Hannibal, the flagship aragami of the Burst storyline. Both shots are in City of Mercy
Toukiden. The cover pits the Default Player Character in the foreground with a Longsword and Nagi at the middleground against the first Oni you encounter, who takes up most of the shot as the background.
Monster Hunter. The covers always feature a Hunter using a Greatsword about to clash with whatever the flagship monster of that game is, background is usually inconsequential (MH:Freedom for one uses a plain white frame and a small circular background).
Marvel vs. Capcom 3
One official art featuring Vergil with his Yamato about to clash with Wolverine with his claws out in a Crisis City-esque background.
Also has one for Spidey vs Strider Hiryu, Ryu vs Nova and (on a larger scale) Magneto vs Galactus.
Tekken 6
From Tekken 6 and onwards during the Namco Bandai logo. It shows Jin and Kazuya about Cross Counter but the screens it turns black at the last second.
In Tekken Tag Tournament 2 this also happens to be their special tag winning pose.
This can happen in-game in Tekken 7. If you and your opponent are closing in on each other at the same time and the next hit will end the round for one or both characters, the action will slow down so you can take in who lands the deciding hit.
Street Fighter IV features Ryu about to clash with Ken on an Xbox Live poster.◊
Virtua Fighter:
A downplayed version (due to it being a Long Shot) appears in the fifth installment between Eileen and El Blaze.◊ where we get an half non-Evil Overlooker in the background and the rest of the cast in the middleground spectating the fight.
The Virtua Fighter 5 opening features dozens of character match ups.
At the end of the openings of Dynasty Warriors 7 & 8. they have Zhao Yun about to clash with Xiahou Dun, flying towards each other, weapons brandished.
The attract trailer/opening cinematic seen in PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale ends with one of these for each of the game's respective rivalries.
In For Honor, before a multiplayer match the two teams will be shown facing off with each other, adopting different poses whether they are on your side or the enemy's, with the player's hero always being at the front. When the match begins, both sides leap at each other right before cutting to the battlefield.
    Western Animation 
In the Justice League Unlimited episode, "Grudge Match", villainess Roulette has been mind-controlling heroines into fighting, but once that's stopped, two of them decide to have a match for fun. And they do so a la Rocky III to boot.
A terrifying one occurs at the end of Chapter 20 of Star Wars: Clone Wars, featuring Master Ki-Adi Mundi facing off against experienced Jedi-killer General Grievous. Grievous leaps at him, wielding three lightsabers simultaneously; Ki-Adi plants one foot behind and prepares to engage him. End of the season.

Tongue on the Flagpole
"She got stuck! Should've ducked! Worst of luck! Stuck, stuck to a pole!"
— Courtney, Gwen, & Heather, Total Drama World Tour, "Stuck to a Pole"
A character, usually (but not always) a kid, is dared to place his tongue on a flagpole (or other metal object) in sub-zero temperatures. The tongue becomes stuck to the flagpole and the characters must find the means to separate it.
Do not attempt this in real life, as the saliva on your tongue will freeze on contact with a cold surface, and it's possible to lose your tongue to severe frostbite. If it happens, have a friend apply warm water or use a blow dryer to melt the ice. Don't try to tear it off, as you will lose a chunk of your skin.
 Advertising 
Happens in a UK advert for Pot Noodle. A boy's tongue is stuck to a pole. A teacher needs warm water and a sponge to free him. But when she goes to boil the kettle she finds a Pot Noodle and uses the hot water on that instead, leaving the boy stuck.
Played with in this commercial for Jeep.
All three of the Budweiser Frogs once got their tongues stuck to a very cold can of Bud in the middle of a blizzard in the swamp.
There was one commercial where a man is walking through the snowy wilderness. He then stops to drink a Pepsi and the rim of the can gets stuck to his lip. He heads to the doctor's and sees a bunch of people in the waiting room who have the same problem, including a dog.
A Pop-Tarts ad plays this trope straight. Strawberry Milkshake is tricked into licking the North Pole, with predicable results- thanks to those mad children.
Hubba Bubba Max has this polar bear explaining its cherry lemonade flavor but then a penguin briefly licks the North Pole
    Comic Books 
Eon: Tetra is raped by a moose when he gets stuck with his tongue on the flagpole.
In Uncanny X-Men #177, a powerless Storm grabs a length of pipe to defend herself when attacked during a blizzard, only to have her hands freeze to to the metal.
The fifteenth issue of the Dutch comic W817, titled Het spook van de musical, had one of the characters pee outside during winter, resulting in her bare butt freezing against the metal door she was leaning against.
    Comic Strips 
In one strip of For Better or for Worse, Elizabeth gets her tongue stuck on a flagpole after her mother warned her of the risk. Her reasoning (after Mom painfully peels her tongue off the frozen metal)? "I wanted to see if it was true!"
Peter gets his tongue stuck to a flagpole off-screen in FoxTrot. Jason tells Andrea to get the camera instead so he can upload it to YouTube.
Garfield
Odie once gets his tongue stuck on a frozen fire hydrant. The strip then shows six panels' worth of outstretched Odie tongue, leading to Garfield saying, "We need a blow dryer and a really, really long extension cord."
Jon once got his tongue stuck on the mailbox, but it wasn't seen.
In one strip, Garfield's lips get stuck to a frozen cup of coffee.
Even well past age 20, Nemi still does this.
    Fan Works 
There's enough images on Derpibooru for the "tongue stuck to pole" tag to exist.
In the Sherlock Holmes fanfic 221B, Watson chides Alfie, one of the Irregulars, for letting someone dare him into licking a lamppost in the middle of winter. The boy turns to Holmes for support. Ultimately, Watson pries out of Holmes that he licked a pump handle every day for a week, testing to see if it would work. Holmes tells Alfie that Mycroft took considerably less care unsticking his tongue than Watson did.
In the fanworks of Gensokyo, Cirno the Ice Fairy is prone to have certain characters stuck to her by their tongues, including Yuyuko.
Sora gets dared to do this in the Kingdom Hearts fanfic Other Halves, and Other Tales.
    Films — Animation 
In Brother Bear, Koda relates a story to Kenai wherein some bear licked an iceberg and got his tongue stuck to it. It then floated away, so to save him "They had to, like, rip his tongue off, so now, he hath t'talk like dis alla time..."
In Despicable Me 2, one of the minions is trapped when he licks a a popsicle dangled in front of him and his tongue gets stuck. He wakes up on the tropical island with his tongue still stuck to it.
At the end of Flushed Away, the evil Toad and his French cousin Le Frog actually get their tongues frozen onto a large pipe containing liquid nitrogen after Roddy smashes it apart to freeze the tidal wave Toad sent to drown the rats of Sewer-London. It's implied that the two amphibians were both arrested after they were unfrozen.
Frozen:
In the teaser trailer, Sven gets his tongue stuck on a frozen lake during a quarrel with Olaf over a carrot.
In the film proper, he does manage to get his tongue stuck to the rail of Elsa's ice staircase while Anna and Kristoff are inside talking to Elsa.
How to Train Your Dragon 2: When Toothless is using an icicle to draw in the snow, the icicle gets stuck to his tongue.
The Ice Age movies:
Scrat gets his tongue stuck to a glacier.
In the first movie, Sid gets his tongue stuck on the floor of an ice cave.
In Rise of the Guardians, a young boy gets his tongue stuck to the frozen water from a drinking fountain due to Jack Frost freezing various things around town.
In The Snow Queen, Orm gets his tongue stuck on some ice.
As a colt, the eponymous Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron gets his tongue stuck to a large icicle. He then snaps it off and carries it away with him until he melts his tongue free in his mouth.
Tom and Jerry: The Fast and the Furry has Biff and Buzz dare Gorthan to do this when he's the first to reach Antarctica. This becomes a factor in his elimination, since he wasn't able to remove it when the ice he's standing on floats away.
    Films — Live-Action 
A Christmas Story, the Trope Codifier. Flick and Schwartz are debating on whether or not a tongue will get stuck to a frozen object. Flick is given a triple dog dare to lick the flag pole, and Mrs. Shields has to call the fire department to release him. note 
Dumb and Dumber. Happens on a ski lift, and Harry doesn't need any goading or triple-dog dares; he just says "Oh look, frost!" and sticks his tongue on it.
In the Czech film The Elementary School, the principal warns his students to be careful on this winter day and not to do certain things, including lick the metal handrail in front of the school. Lo and behold, the very next scene shows three boys stuck on said railing. They are then sent spitting blood, since two of the boys tear themselves off while being freed via a blowtorch and the third one gets a Dope Slap, biting down on his tongue, after being successfully rescued.
Happens in Epic Movie, also with tongue-tearing results. In the unrated cut of the film, her tongue stretches to an insane length and she attempts to cut free with a knife and axe.
In In Order of Disappearance, Nils' lip sticks momentarily to the barrel of his rifle when he attempts to eat his gun.
The former variation occurs in Jackass 2, when one of the guys freezes his balls to a block of ice.
Happens in Jack Frost 2: Revenge of the Mutant Killer Snowman, with tongue-tearing results.
And that same variation occurs in Joe Dirt when a dog's testicles get stuck to the porch of a house during a cold night.
Another variation occurs in Saw III: Jeff freezes his cheek onto a set of pipes while reaching for a key to free a woman being sprayed with freezing water. He gets the key, tearing some skin off his cheek, but is too late to save her.
During a parody of The Exorcist in Scary Movie 2, the priest played by Andy Ritchter enters the room with the possessed girl inside and complains about how cold the room is. He then kisses the small metal cross he has with him, only for his lips to get stuck to it.
Butterball's tongue gets stuck to an icicle in Snow Buddies when he mistakes it for a popsicle.
A variation occurs in A Very Harold & Kumar 3D Christmas. Hint: it's not Harold's tongue that gets stuck.
Kumar: This is just like that scene in A Christmas Story.
Harold: Oh, is it really?
Whiteout: When Carrie is being chased at Vostok, she loses one of her gloves. When she opens the metal door, her hand freezes to it and she has to tear off a large chunk of skin to free herself. The hand later gets infected and requires the amputation of two fingers.
    Literature 
One of the beliefs cited in The American Credo—"That there was once a man who placed his tongue against the rails of the Monon railroad near Kokomo, Indiana, and, being unable to get loose, had his head cut off by a passenger train four hours later." (New #1130)
One of the stories in The Book of Heroic Failures tells of a man who knelt down to breathe on the lock of his car door in an effort to defrost it and ending up spending a freezing night outside with his lips stuck to the car door.
At the beginning of Neal Stephenson's Cobweb a guy tries to feel Desiree Dhont's bum, not realising that she has spent her whole life wrestling with her champion-grade brothers and is just as badass as they are. Before he knows what's happening, she slams his face into a freezing cold metal window frame and leaves him stuck to it.
In Farmer Boy, Almanzo is egged on to lick a pump handle, but knows better than to rise to the bait.
While not using the tongue, it is mentioned in Hogfather. Albert reminisces about a toy horse he wanted as a kid. "I must have spent hours staring at it with my nose pressed against the glass, until someone heard my cries and unfroze me."
One Paul Jennings story features a boy kissing an ice sculpture of a girl. The inevitable happens, inevitably, so he goes into a pool of water to melt it off.
The narrator in Popular Music From Vittula climbs to a mountain in the Himalayas, and kneels over to kiss a metal plate on the ground. He has to pee in a cup to free himself.
The Watsons Go to Birmingham had a scene like this too. Specifically, one of the boys was kissing a mirror, so he got his lips stuck. Unable to use hot water to get him off, his mother rips him off the mirror. He keeps his lips, but is incredibly sore and has to cover them with Vaseline for a few days.
Warrior Cats
Ravenpaw goes to drink from a gutter on the barn roof, but ends up with his tongue stuck to the ice he wasn't expecting to be there.
In Sunrise, Hollyleaf gets her tongue stuck to a frozen pond. After much hilariousness, Brambleclaw gets her free by breathing on the ice to melt it.
    Live-Action TV 
The Doctor Blake Mysteries: In "The Call of the Void", the Victim of the Week dies clutching a shelf in a walk-in freezer. By the time he is found, his hand is frozen to the shelf and Lucien has to break his fingers to detach him.
On The Goldbergs, Adam dares Barry to stick his tongue in a pole. Barry gets even by pushing Adam's lips to the pole. And then they realize that no one knows where they are and they can't call for help.
Kenan & Kel get stuck in a restaurant's freezer and one of them gets his tongue stuck on a fish.
The Last Leg: In series 18, ep. 6, Josh—despite a warning from Adam—licks an ice sculpture of Mike the Cameraman (It Makes Sense in Context, kind of) and gets his tongue stuck and has to be pulled free by Alex.
Tested and confirmed on MythBusters. Evidently, enough people thought it to be a myth to justify it (possibly because the show was filmed in balmy California). This also showed how much damage it could cause. They stuck a pig's tongue to it, and when they pulled it off by force...
In one episode of QI, Phill Jupitus learns that the coldest place in the known universe is a science lab in an American university, containing a metal bar which has been cooled to a fraction above 0 Kelvin. He wonders if any of the scientists have ever been tempted to lick it.
An episode of Rescue 911 has this happen on one of their segments where a kid gets his tongue stuck in a freezer and the rescue squad has to come and free him.
The Paul Jennings story mentioned above was one of many adapted as an episode of Round the Twist. The ice statue Bronson kissed was of a girl who had red hair — who turned out to be his cousin.
Referenced in Scrubs. Turk is keeping his boxers in the freezer and JD's brother warns him to make sure he is completely dry "down there" before putting them on or he could end up with "a tongue on the flagpole situation".
On The Suite Life of Zack and Cody, London gets her tongue stuck a frozen smoothie that Zack had stuck on a popsicle stick.
The Terror: A rare non-comedic example. Due to the cold, the party are careful not to touch metal above deck with their bare flesh, otherwise they'll get stuck and lose several layers of skin trying to get free. Crozier (who really should know better) at one point makes the mistake of bringing a telescope too close to his eye, and nearly rips his eyelid off. Another man tears off most of the skin on his palm while preparing a cannon to fire at the Tuunbaq.
In one This Hour Has 22 Minutes segment, an eco-terrorist who blew up a pipeline in British Columbia offers some advice to other terrorists. He insists the media was wrong about no one being hurt, since he licked the pipeline not knowing his tongue would get stuck. Things got progressively worse when the bear showed up.
Jeremy Clarkson on Top Gear. In a variant, it was a metal hex nut he was holding with his mouth — but since he was standing on the polar ice north of Canada at the time, it had the same effect.
Happens in one clip on World's Dumbest.... Chuck Nice even references A Christmas Story.
    Music 
There's a verse about this in "There Are Many Dangers" by Crash Test Dummies.
"Weird Al" Yankovic: "Your Horoscope for Today" features a variant.
Aquarius: There's travel in your future
When your tongue freezes to the back of a speeding bus!
    Puppet Shows 
This happens to one of the frogs in It's a Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie.
    Radio 
On Cabin Pressure, The Ditz flight attendant Arthur has trouble opening the plane's hold door with his gloves on when it's on the ground in St. Petersburg, so he takes them off. Once he's been freed with the liberal application of vodka, he goes to put his gloves back on and in order to do so, puts the keys he was holding in his mouth... The incident is a Chekhov's Gag that gets them out of a pickle later in the episode.
On A Prairie Home Companion Garrison Keillor jokingly suggested that pump handles (and frozen objects in general) have the ability to hypnotize children to make them stick their tongues on them.
Stuart McLean plays with this trope in one of his The Vinyl Cafe stories. A man gets stuck on the roof in the middle of winter. He contemplates peeing on the TV antenna, though knowledge of this trope prevents him from doing so.
    Video Games 
Not performable, but mentioned during a conversation with Alistair in Dragon Age: Origins. "Have you ever licked a lamppost in winter?" Becomes even more hillarious if you have a mod that allows the male Warden to romance Alistair. Dragon Age: Origins – Awakening adds the staff Lamppost in Winter, the description stating that it is painfully cold and licking it would be unwise.
A level in the second Dumb Ways to Die game asks you not to lick a pole.
Ittle Dew: In one cutscene, Ittle is shown having her tongue stuck on the Ice Wand. It's just for show, though.
In Leisure Suit Larry 7: Love for Sail!, Larry can lick an ice sculpture and get his tongue stuck.
In Mass Effect, Ashley will tell people not to lick any poles if you talk to her on Noveria.
One loading screen video loop in Monday Night Combat features the Ice Men Pit Girl trying to pull free an Ice Men Tank... whose tongue is stuck to a ShaveIce turret.
In the Saints Row IV DLC, How the Saints Saved Christmas, in reference to the Trope Codifier, the Boss has to place their tongue on a pole in order to cause lightning to strike (just roll with it). Initially, this leads to an inversion of But Thou Must!, as there are only two "Refuse" options at the beginning, but refusing enough times will play the trope straight and solidify the Shout-Out as C.I.D triple dog-dares the Boss to do it, leading to two "Accept" options.
The (very surreal) Interactive Fiction game So Far dares you to lick a frozen pole. It's a bad idea, because you will get stuck and eventually freeze. While your tongue is stuck, all descriptions come back muddled, as if the narrator ith thalking with ith thung thuck to a thlagthole.
In the Canada level of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3, there is an objective to help a guy called Chuck (specifically, "Get Chuck Unstuck") who has got his tongue stuck on a pole and is being taunted and having snowballs thrown at him by two bullies. This being a skateboarding game, what's the solution? Plow into him at full speed.
    Web Animation 
Happy Tree Friends:
In the episode "Tongue Twister Trouble", Sniffles the anteater gets his tongue frozen to a lake after trying to eat an ant.
In another episode, Giggles and Petunia get their lips frozen to Cro-Marmot's ice block after trying to kiss him.
This Newgrounds Flash short. For Bilingual Bonus, the sign on the pole says "Wishing pole: one lick = one wish".
Simon's Cat briefly gets his tongue stuck trying to get to a fish in a frozen pond in "Icecapades".
    Web Comics 
Contemplating Reiko:
Demonstrated here◊, by Shinobu.
Reiko pulls this on one of her classmates... during the summer. Amazing what Super Glue can do.
A likely Shout-Out to the Trope Codifier here, though it's a wall in a ice fortress, in The Fourth.
In one strip of Freefall, with a friggin' adult Corrupt Corporate Executive instead of a kid.
Sam: I've been wanting to see if that would work ever since we entered the cryogenics facility.
Hamleto The Hamster: Happens to Hamleto with a bottle of ice-cold water.
In Level 30 Psychiatry, Greninja's tongue scarf and urban ninja running don't mix too well, leaving him hanging from a lamppost.
In Li'l Gotham, Robin gets his tongue stuck when he attempts to lick the ice cream cone of someone stuck in one of Mr Freeze's blocks of ice.
Manly Guys Doing Manly Things: Evidently, Ganondorf's trolling isn't limited to just Link.
Ganondorf: Look in my defense I'm from the desert, I had no idea it worked that fast.
A variation occurs in one strip  of A Modest Destiny, in which Maxim sticks his tongue to a metal shelf in a freezer.
Lost and Found.
The Narbonic parody of A Christmas Story briefly shows a young Dave Davenport yelling "I'm thtuck!"
An NSFW Oglaf strip involves a character attempting to give oral sex to the Ice Queen, the Anthropomorphic Personification of winter, with this as the unfortunate result.
This pic shows two side characters from Transmission, a married couple no less, with both their tongues frozen to a flagpole.
Two Lumps: Snooch managed to stick himself to an ice-cold metal window frame this way.
Apparently, a pile of shoggoth(s?) grew some tongues for the specific purpose of sticking them onto a glacier when teleported to the Antarctic by the Elder Things in one comic of The Unspeakable Vault (of Doom).
And in this panel of GU Comics, we find a party whose tank has managed to stick his tongue to a Frost Giant!
    Web Original 
Probably classified as something else, but this picture from Gaia Online is pure fanservICE and it knows it. But hey, hot guys!
    Web Videos 
CollegeHumor: In "Why Girls Are Cold on Halloween", partying on a hotel rooftop, one girl gets her tongue stuck to the metal of another girl's costume while licking a body shot of her.
    Western Animation 
The 7D:
Lord Starchbottom gets his lip frozen to his trumpet in "The Long, Long Winter".
The Ice Witch gets Grumpy frozen to her lip after he tries to kiss her in "7 Frogs".
In Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog, Scratch and Grounder are in the Arctic cold, Scratch kisses Grounder, Hilarity Ensues.
In the first episode of Avatar: The Last Airbender, Aang gets his tongue frozen to his glider. Since he appears in the next scene not attached to the glider, he presumably detached himself.
In the Camp Lazlo episode "Beans Are From Mars", Chip and Skip get their tongues stuck to an ice cream truck. Which then drives off.
In the Class of 3000 episode "Eddie's Money", Madison gets her tongue stuck on an ice sculpture at Eddie's birthday party. Twice.
Courage the Cowardly Dog's tongue gets stuck to a frozen Muriel in "Snowman's Revenge". This gets worse when the snowman snaps the poor dog's tongue in half to free him.
Danger Mouse: "Melting" begins In Medias Res with DM's butt frozen to a throne of ice as part of Pink Dawn's plan to reenact her favourite musical. He has to be rescued by Penfold with a hot water bottle.
Happens multiple times on Erky Perky, whenever the bugs get into the refrigerator. Fortunately, most of the characters have detachable tongues.
In The Fairly OddParents episode "Snow Bound", Timmy sticks his tongue to a frozen fishbowl and then proceeds to pull himself out of a pit he was stuck in using his tongue as a lasso.
In the teaser trailer for Frozen, the reindeer character Sven gets his tongue stuck on a frozen lake during a quarrel over a carrot with the snowman Olaf.
Not seen directly, but it is mentioned in the Futurama episode "A Leela of Her Own" that Hank Aaron XXIV once got his tongue stuck to his blernsball bat on a cold day.
Happens to Sir Roderick in Gawayn. Having won a fake Crystal of Gawayn in a game show, Roderick tries to get it to work by licking it. At this point, he discovers it is actually made of ice.
The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy: Billy gets his tongue frozen to Santa's sleigh in the Christmas Special.
In the Grossology episode "Fangs a Lot", Professor Skinner gets stuck when he kisses a frozen, giant, genetically modified snake.
This happens to Mystique Sonia in the Penguin Castle episode of Hero: 108. She gets her Overly Long Tongue stuck to a frozen bowling ball.
When it starts snowing in King of the Hill, Peggy says "Nobody lick any flagpoles!"
In LEGO Star Wars: The Yoda Chronicles , Han Solo gets his lips stuck on C-3PO when he kisses him on Hoth. Threepio is moping about not getting more recognition, and Han tries to kiss him. The last scene has Zek using his crystal arm to try and heat up Han's face enough to free the lips.
Threepio: I wouldn't do that if I were you.
Han: [muffled] My lips are stuck!
In the episode "Winter Wonder Wha?" in Littlest Pet Shop (2012), Vinnie got his tongue stuck on the frozen ground.
The Looney Tunes Show: In "A Christmas Carol", Daffy gets his butt frozen to a park bench during the song "Christmas Rules".
Penny from The Mighty B! once tried to do this on purpose. She failed.
In the The Mr. Men Show episode "Parties", Miss Whoops offered Mr. Bump to lick her strawberry flavored ice sculpture of herself. But Mr. Bump ended up getting his tongue stuck on a piece of the sculpture.
In the My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic episode "Hearth's Warming Eve", Scootaloo and some other poor anonymous filly get their tongues stuck to a huge (Christmas-tree-sized) candy-cane prop. They get better, though.
Phineas and Ferb: In "Out to Launch", Dr, Doofenshmirtz gets his tongue stuck on the giant ice cube tray he was using to hold Perry the Platypus prisoner.
Stimpy from The Ren & Stimpy Show once did this, once it became stuck he pulled until his tongue got ripped off.
SheZow: Maz, as MEAT-eor Man gets his tongue on a frozen Kelly Hamdon in "Coldfinger".
The Simpsons
One of the winter hazards faced by Lewis and Clarke (a.k.a. Lenny and Carl) in the episode "Magical History Tour".
Homer gets his tongue stuck to the ice sculpture at Otto's wedding.
In "The Springfield Files", Channel 6 News uses a file photo of Homer that shows him with his tongue stuck to a lamppost.
In "My Fair Laddy'', Bart stores Lisa's saxophone in the freezer and then hands it to her. Her tongue gets stuck when she attempts to blow it.
In "Homer the Heretic", while on the way to church during a winter storm, Maggie gets her tongue stuck to the side of her car seat.
The Skinner Boys: In "Freezer Burn", the Skinner boys are investigating a wrecked icebreaker when Butt-Monkey Edward trips over a dog and winds up with tongue stuck to a bollard.
A Smurf in The Smurfs: A Christmas Carol tries to lick an icicle and gets his tongue stuck on it. He is seen dancing with the other Smurfs with the icicle still stuck on his tongue.
Stan Lee discussed this in the The Spectacular Spider Man "Blueprints" when he was talking to a crew member at the docks that he hates it when he sticks his tongue on a ship in the cold weather.
Happens to Patrick when he gets his tongue on a wooden pole when the Krusty Krab is frozen in the SpongeBob SquarePants episode "Krabs a la Mode"(not that he minded, though). Later on in the same episode, he also gets it stuck to the back of the clamboni.
In the Squirrel Boy episode "The Grim Cheaper", imaginary future Andy gets his tongue stuck on an icicle during the sled chase through the deep frozen house (which also makes sense in context).
Stōked: In "Channel Surfers", Reef attempts to kiss Lo while they are standing in the cool room. He misses and ends up with his tongue stuck to a metal strut.
Storm Hawks: In "Fire and Ice", Leugey gets his tongue stuck to a wall of ice.
Interesting, if sick, take on the subject in Superjail!: The Warden gets his tongue stuck on Alice's frozen body, while trying to lick her breasts...
Taz-Mania: Taz gets his tongue stuck to frozen dinner in "Take All of Me". Wendal's attempts to free him do not go well.
In Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race, MacArthur gets her tongue stuck to a trash can in Siberia after Josee shoves her.
Total Drama World Tour:
In the Yukon episode, Bridgette gets her tongue stuck to a flagpole thanks to Alejandro. Then Chris forces her to sing about it (With Gwen Courtney and Heather as backup), made even funnier considering that her voice is slurred as she tries to speak, and it's the only song to have visible lyrics to make it more understandable.
In an exclusive clip, Heather is sent to the Yukon after she is eliminated, and gets her tongue stuck to a pole as a reference back to the episode.
The Venture Bros., "Now Museum, Now You Don't": Hank sticks his tongue to the ice block containing Ug-Ugh.
In Yvon of the Yukon, Harland and the Duke find themselves lost in the middle of the arctic tundra when they come across a set of train tracks. Wondering if a train is coming, Harland gives the sage advice: "If you stick your tongue to the train track and it doesn't stick, then a train has gone by, and if it does stick, then a train is coming". The Duke tries this, and naturally gets his tongue stuck to the tracks.
In the Zeke's Pad episode "The Artful Dodger", Zeke's dad gets the Captivity Harmonica he was playing inside the snowbound house stuck to his lips.

Sewer Gator
Alligators that have been flushed down the toilet will end up living in the sewers down below the streets. Most of the time, these alligators can be an example of Never Smile at a Crocodile. They are sometimes said to be albinos, like many real cave-dwelling creatures, due to living in a mostly lightless environment (even though cave-dwelling albino creatures are that way in real life due to having evolved to be that way over countless generations). Many fictional works make alligators grow to gigantic proportions or become indestructible killing machines from all the chemicals (often growth and/or rage inducing) found in sewers.
Of course, this trope is entirely fictional and unrealistic. Not only because it relies on Absurdly Spacious Sewer, itself a fictional and unrealistic trope, but also because there's just plain nothing to eat in a sewer, and because such a creature would spend every waking moment immersed in human excrement, which would obviously be about as healthy as sharing an apartment with a Plaguemaster.
The alligator-in-the-sewer thing is probably one of the oldest Urban Legends New York has.
 Anime & Manga 
Below the holy city in Goblin Slayer lives a mystical animal that looks like a giant, white alligator. It is considered a holy guardian, and the elf among the adventurers fearfully calls him a swamp dragon.
Heat Guy J: As Daisuke and J look for Daisuke's bullet pendant in the Absurdly Spacious Sewers of Judoh in the "Circulation" episode, an alligator briefly surfaces near the boat that they are travelling in.
In Highlander: The Search for Vengeance a huge (and probably mutated) alligator lives in the canals in post-apocalyptic New York.
Log Horizon: One of dungeons described in the Eastern Yamato Map is a sewer that extends from underground of Akiba to Kanda called Kanda Flume / Akiba Sewer that is populated by monsters that are inspired by urban legends, including a white alligator.
In Patlabor, Special Vehicles Unit 2 encounters giant underground alligators at least twice:
TV series episode "The Underground Mystery Tour": While investigating a series of thefts at the station, they learn about tunnels beneath the reclaimed land that look an awful lot like sewers. Inhabitants include numerous rats, feral cats, the homeless man behind the thefts, and an enormous albino aligator that chases them around for the last third of the episode.
The New Files OVA episode "The Dungeon Again": When they hear about a very valuable pearl that was secreted by an albino alligator that was recently captured from the sewers beneath the SV2 hanger, some mechanics go into the tunnels to see if they can find some more and a rescue team is sent in after them when they do not return. Hilarity Ensues when they run to booby traps left a by a crazy guy living there and when they find the "pearls", it turns out that they were actually eggs.
It's a little hard to tell if it's a sewer or what, but during her childhood Sasasul of A Centaur's Life ended up in a big wet underground space and was confronted by a massive six-legged crocodilian.
    Comic Books 
Astro City: One of the outcast heroes that was recruited by Bravo to become one of the founding members of the Astro City Irregulars was a mutant alligator that lived in the sewers of Astro City with the unoriginal name of Alligator.
The second Babe series by John Byrne has the titular character fighting an army of Cyborg alligators coming from the sewers under the control of Shrewmanoid.
Batman #577 - "Mike and Allie": While searching for the source of the rats that are infesting the Batcave, Batman finds a blind girl who ran away from home and lived with a group of sewer gators after her abusive foster parent flushed her pet alligator down the toilet. She grew close enough to the gators to develop a Psychic Link with them.
Cattivik, despite being set in the sewers of an inteterminated Italian city, mentions a sewer crocodile, to whom the titular character plans to give a birthday cake (with a steel ball hidden inside), and in another story he uses the crocodile in the process of discarding possible theft victims (read: after preparing a list he lets him bite at it and pick from the still legible names). A third story kickstart the plot by having a Nile Crocodile escaping into the sewers as Cattivik is washing, and is shown to be so harmless that the protagonist briefly considers to adopt him.
Daredevil #180 - "The Damned": Ben Urich realizes a bag lady in pictures of an abandoned subway tunnel looks like the missing Vanessa Fisk and contacts Daredevil to help him find her. While they are looking for Vanessa in the tunnels, Ben and Daredevil are captured by a group of homeless people. They are brought before the Sewer King and he feeds them to an alligator that the King had raised ever since he found it flushed down a toilet as an infant.
Big Al, a villain introduced "The Sewer of Doom" story of E-Man, is a talking, cigar-smoking, albino sewer gator who wants to conquer the world in the name of reptile-kind.
In the Judge Dredd comic, "Gator" from 2000 AD progs #384-386, two perps are eaten by blind, white alligators while running from Dredd in the sewers and Dredd himself is almost killed. Just as he is about to arrest the boss of the sewage works for negligence in allowing the tunnels to become infested with gators, Dredd learns that a survival club is in the tunnels and he has to go back down to save them.
One of the first enemies (after child mooks and small robots) the new Ms Marvel encountered were sewer gators both in giant and armed with Fricking Laser Beams variety, thanks to the local super villain.
Marvel Universe character, the Piper is a mutant that lives in the New York sewers and he keeps a pack of alligators under his control with the music from his flute.
The Mighty Thor #364-365: As part of the The Fight for Asgard storyline, Thor is transformed into a frog by Loki and ends up in Central Park. While there, he becomes involved with a war between a kingdom of frogs and an evil army of rats. Since most of the frogs aren't really capable of standing up to the rats, Thor decides to investigate the frog's legends about "dragons" that live in the sewers and they turn out to be the Piper's alligators. Thor steals his instrument away and leads the gators to feast on the rats.
Untold Tales of Spider-Man: The Lizard takes reptiles from the zoo in the "Cry...Lizard!" issue and leads them into the sewers to make them into an army.
Spider-Man: Alligators in the sewers, Lizzie? Isn't that a little... cliché?
Frank Miller's Wolverine #41: Wolverine and Sabretooth clash in the New York City sewers and encounter both the Morlocks and multiple sewer alligators. Sabretooth proceeds to rip the throats out of several of the gators.
In a story told over five 7-page back-ups in Wonder Woman Vol 1 #309-313, the Huntress tracks down a baby trafficking villain called Earthworm in the Gotham sewers. He uses his control over the animals in the sewers to make some alligators attack her.
    Comic Strips 
Parodied in a Garfield strip, where Garfield falls into a sewer and meets up with a giant alligator that was in the sewer, along with a canary and a goldfish that have also become giant after ending up in the sewer. Garfield comments that their new gigantic sizes are just ridiculous.
A Sherman's Lagoon strip had Sherman and Megan lost in New York while on vacation. They get directions from an alligator in the sewer and comment that New York gets a bad rap since the alligator was very polite.
An earlier storyline had another alligator from the sewers of New York visit the lagoon via a large pipe.
    Films — Animation 
King Gator in All Dogs Go to Heaven is a big-lipped alligator (yeah, THAT big-lipped alligator) living in the New Orleans sewers, worshipped by the sewer rats.
Subverted in An American Tail, as it's just a garden lizard, but due to the protagonist being a mouse, it's the size of one proportionally. it shows up to eat the roaches trying to eat him, letting him get away.
The Secret Life of Pets has the "Flushed Pets," a criminal organization of former pets living in the sewers who have sworn revenge against humans, led by a maniacal rabbit. As you might expect, one of them's an alligator.
The film The Wild saw the zoo animals meeting up with a pair of alligators in the sewer who actually turned out to be friendly and helped the heroes find the way to the Statue of Liberty.
    Films — Live-Action 
The 1980 film Alligator is about an alligator in the sewers of Chicago that grows to enormous size and begins killing humans after it eats the corpses of dogs that had been given illegal growth hormones.
Not a gator, but the Lizard in The Amazing Spider-Man film not only takes residence in the sewer, but also makes a small lab inside.
Briefly discussed in Candyman, with Trevor's students bringing up multiple versions of the story, set variously in Miami or New York City. Trevor points to the discrepancy as an example of how the details are always shifting and mutable in folklore.
The Dark Knight Rises: When Gordon told his superiors about Bane's hideout in the sewers, they mocked him by asking if he saw any giant alligators as well, a subtle nod to Batman villain Killer Croc. Oddly enough, Batman fought Killer Croc in the sewers in the "In Darkness Dwells" segment of the Interquel, Batman: Gotham Knight.
Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom: A Baryonyx appears before the protagonists from the sewers, in the same way a sewer gator would. Bonus points for Baryonyx resembling a modern day crocodilian.
In the 2018 Thai movie The Pool, a couple are trapped in a six-metre deep swimming pool when the water drains out. Things go From Bad to Worse when a crocodile crawls out of the drainage manhole.
There was a giant gator in the sewer in Sharknado 2: The Second One, but it was eaten by a shark.
In Suicide Squad (2016), Killer Croc's room at Belle Reve is designed to imitate a sewer.
    Gamebooks 
Lone Wolf. Not alligators exactly, but close enough: the Baga-darooz in Barrakeesh is an Absurdly Spacious Sewer inhabited by Kwaraz (giant carnivorous lizards) among other monsters. A couple of them can try to eat the hero during his visit in book 5, Shadow on the Sand.
    Literature 
In Brian Keene's City of the Dead (the sequel to The Rising), some zombie alligators attack the fleeing humans as they travel through the sewers.
Croc is a 1976 novel by David James. In it, a crocodile somehow wound up in the NYC sewers and it has been living there for years. Two sewer workers are down in there investigating a blockage, and the croc chomps one of them. The other guy (Peter Boggs) escapes, and is later talked into going down there to try to shoot the gator with a pistol. He is stuck down there for the rest of the story, and the other characters are cops who become convinced that a croc is in the sewers. They head down to try to rescue the guy, and kill the croc.
In Harlan Ellison's "Croatoan" the alligators are ridden by unwanted fetuses which were also flushed down toilets.
Illuminatus! has a passing mention of the Illuminati going to some effort to suppress the Sewer Gators under Manhattan, as left unchecked, they might promote more courage among the ignorant masses than the Illuminati would like.
In the second of the Never Deal with a Dragon trilogy of Shadowrun novels the protagonist Sam learns that generations of childhood belief in the fact that alligators live in sewers after being flushed has caused them to become an urban magical totem as well as a nature one.
In Neverwhere, Hunter in a Badass Boast says that she killed the biggest of the New York sewer gators.
Hunter's voice was quiet and intense. She did not break her step as she spoke. "I fought in the sewers beneath New York with the great blind white alligator-king. He was thirty feet long, fat from sewage and fierce in battle. And I bested him, and I killed him. His eyes were like huge pearls in the darkness."
In Sewer, Gas & Electric there are entire hit squads patrolling the sewers on heavily armed gunboats in search of these and other critters (such as the plot-relevant Great White Shark codenamed "Meisterbrau"). The turnover rate is atrocious.
In A Storm of Swords, though not identified as an alligator, the sewers of Meereen contain some large white lizard-like creatures that will attack humans if they encounter them, surely inspired by this.
In The Truth, ace salesman CMOT Dibbler briefly peddles a kind of "Fung Shooey". He is so good at it that one buyer discovers the Dragon of Unhappiness literally comes up through a lavatory which has been celestially mis-aligned and bites the believer in the bum.
One of the illustrations in the children's book Underground by David Macaulay shows a cutaway section of a city street. There's an alligator in the sewer.
In chapter 5 of V. by Thomas Pynchon, Benny Profane hunts with the Alligator Patrol in the sewers of Manhattan. According to the narration, he had already managed to bag four gators and a rat during his first two weeks on the job.
Sewer Jack from the Wild Cards series is an Ace with the power to shapeshift into an alligator. As his name indicates, he has taken to hunting in the sewers in his alligator form when he is not working as a NYC Transit worker.
The Wild Ones has Gayle, a ferocious alligator who preys on animals who fall or wander into her territory by mistake.
    Live-Action TV 
The Carbonaro Effect: One target thought she was assisting a realtor, when he pulled a small lizard out of the kitchen sink... and then one nearly twice that size. He eventually told her that this trope was so common that there was a "lizard law" in realty.
Doctor Who "The Dalek Invasion of Earth": Susan is almost eaten by alligators that escaped from zoos during The Plague and managed to thrive in the London sewers.
The wesen from the "Cold Blooded (Part One)" episode of Grimm is an alligator-like creature. They originally served the Praetorian Guard and hid in the aqueducts after the fall of Rome.
Someone on the city council of... wherever Hill Street Blues is actually set takes this urban legend seriously enough that the SWAT Team carries out an annual alligator hunt in the city sewers. Hilarity Ensues when Detectives LaRue and Washington acquire a very convincing foam-rubber model alligator, strap it to a skateboard and launch it towards the search team while they're down there.
Lost Girl: The Alligator Fae introduced in the "SubterrFaenean" episode are a type of Under-Fae, Fae that cannot pass as human, that were rounded up and quarantined in the sewers when they started showing signs of a mysterious illness.
Monster Warriors: In "Gators!", a family of giant aligators are in the sewers and it's up to the Monster Warriors to get rid of them.
Mystery Hunters: One episode features Christina heading to New York City to investigate reports of alligators supposedly living in the sewers.
The Naked Truth: Nora gets assigned alligator duty in the "Sewer Gators, Swordplay, Santa from Hell!" episode which consists of searching the sewers for gators and trying to get pictures for The Comet. At the end of the episode, all of Nora's friends who have joined her in the sewers for Christmas dinner are chased off by an alligator, except for Camilla who stays to get pictures.
A Kaprosuchus (a prehistoric crocodile) in Primeval comes into an apartment as a young animal and is washed down into the loo by the resident. He then grows up in the sewers until he grows up and then kills many people to eat them.
Supernatural: The third victim of the "Tall Tales" episode is an animal researcher who is devoured by a sewer gator after sticking his hand down the drain to get a gold watch at the bottom. The gator was created by The Trickster because the researcher is involved in Animal Testing.
Dean: An alligator in the sewer. Come on.
Sam: What? Well, Dean, it's a classic urban legend. A kid flushes a baby gator down the toilet, and it grows huge in the tunnels.
Dean: But no-one's ever really found one. I mean, th — they're not real.
The X-Files: A sewage worker in the "The Host" episode claims he caught one such gator a few years ago and speculates that the Monster of the Week may be someone's pet python that was flushed into the sewer.
In a book on this series, Agent Mulder and another agent track a kind of werecrocodile in a sewer.
    Music 
The Radiohead song, "Fog" from the Knives Out album is also called "Alligators in New York Sewers" because the reference to this trope in the chorus.
Baby alligators in the sewers grow up fast
Grow up fast
     Radio 
A gag in I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue Series 72, Episode 1, involved TV adventurer Ben Fogle traveling to Australia to find out if there's any truth to the rumours that there's a massive crocodile in the sewers of Darwin. It turns out to be a giant croc of shit.
    Tabletop Games 
Alternity: The Dragon Magazine magazine #269 article "Urban Legends" adapts the sewer gator legend for the Dark Matter setting. Rather than any human origin, the gators are introduced to the sewers by the Kinori to guard their subterranean bases. The Hoffman Institute have recently begun to find Kinori remains in the digestive tracts of the gators.
Chronicles of Darkness:
Crocodile spirits from the Book of Spirits are inhumanly patient when settling any grudge, appearing out of nowhere to drag their prey into the Spirit World. Their sudden appearances gave birth to many tales of sewer alligators.
Promethean: The Created One of the NPCs from the core book is the Great Albino Alligator, a Pandoran of the Sebek lineage. Back when New York was called New Amsterdam, a collector with an interest in Egyptian artifacts brought the half man, half crocodile Pandoran to the city under the belief that it was a statue made by an ancient Nile cult. A young Nepri accidentally awoke the Pandoran while searching for an amulet amongst the collection. After the Great Albino Alligator found and consumed the young Nepri, it descended into the sewers to hunt any Prometheans that sought solace within them.
"Urban Legends": As urban growth started to overrun the wetlands home to alligators, an incarnation of an unknowable entity that was once worshiped as Sobek was drawn to the alligator's want for survival. The incarnation came into being in the only suitable environment close to the old wetlands: the sewer system. The supernatural influence of incarnation strengthened alligators and drew them to it. The incarnation has also begun to draw humans into a cult, slowly transforming the worshippers into beasts no different from the alligators and changing the tunnels to more closely resemble the swamps and jungles that alligators call home.
Dungeons & Dragons
Dungeon magazine #10 adventure "Nine-Tenths of the Law". An underground cesspool has six white alligators that were flushed down a drain and ended up in the sewers.
Polyhedron magazine #75 adventure "You've Lost Your Marbles!". While exploring a sewer to find the title marbles, the Player Characters will have to fight two crocodiles that were released there when they became too big to continue being kept as pets.
Planescape setting had the Trocopotaca, a large, white-skinned alligator-like monster that dwelled in the sewers underneath Sigil. Most inhabitants of Sigil consider them to be myths.
GURPS has a few different takes on the Urban Legend:
In the "Black Ops" setting, sightings of Sewer Flukes are said to create the legend of sewer gators. How a giant, white centipede is mistaken for an alligator is not exactly clear.
The Discworld Roleplaying Game scenario about mapping Ankh-Morpork's forgotten sewers includes "the Albino Aligators, who have arrived from a different set of narrative assumptions".
The "Monsters" supplement for third edition has Specimen Alpha-39, an alligator that was used as a guinea pig for genetic experiments and was disposed of via the sewers. It now rules the Jersey sewers with its enhanced intelligence and size.
"Monster Hunters 3: The Enemy" for fourth edition plays this straight with the Albino Alligators. This version is blind but capable of tracking prey by sound or by the vibrations in the sewage that they make while moving around.
In Transhuman Space the urban legend has developed into the Lurker Below, a huge alligator-like creature with writhing tentacles along its back, supposedly created by experimental biotech being flushed into the sewers and altering whatever's already down there.
The collectable version of Illuminati features an "Albino Alligators" card.
The "Urban Adventure" supplement for Iron Kingdoms details a savage tribe of albino gatormen that have lived in the sewers of Corvis and preyed upon the homeless ever since they fled the wrath of another tribe.
It Came from the Late, Late Show. The Giant Alligator Monsters are based on the Urban Legend. They're angry about being flushed into the sewers and express their feelings by eating subway commuters and sewer workers.
In the Judge Dredd War Game from Warlords Games describes the sewers of Mega-City One as being infested with giant, white alligators.
In Necromunda, legend has it that the Sumpkrocs some wealthy members of House Goliath often keep as pets are cloned and genetically modified descendants of the reptilian pets once fashionable amongst hive nobility that were thrown into waste shuts when they grew too big. The 3rd Edition of the game allows such creatures to be purchased as wargear by Goliath Leaders and Champions as tough and loyal Attack Animals.
Old World of Darkness:
Vampire: The Masquerade: Nosferatu vampires will sometimes train alligators to protect their lairs beneath the cities, represented by the Reptile Buddy merit. Some of the problems with alligators actually living in the sewers can be handwaved by the vampires turning them into ghouls. Calebros, the ex-prince of New York, has a gigantic pet albino alligator called Charioteer that is trained to ferry visitors through the sewers to one of his sanctums. Ghoul alligators also show up as foes in Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption in the drains.
Werewolf: The Forsaken: A powerful sewer-spirit from the "Predators" supplement book is described as a deformed giant rat riding "a great albino alligator".
Paranoia adventure Send in the Clones. In the "Sewerworld" segment the PC Troubleshooters can encounter gatorbots living in the sewers.
Shadowrun: Ghost Gators are Awakened, albino sewer gators that show up in the 4th ed adventures Back in Business and On a Silver Platter. They are four meters long while still managing to be stealthy, can Wall Crawl, and their skin is tough enough to resist small arms fire.
While mundane alligators don't live in the sewers, the prevalence of the Urban Legend is enough that Gator Shamans work just fine in an urban enviroment.
Unknown Armies: Urbanomancers, adepts whose occult powers revolve around cities, keep albino alligators in the sewers as pets.
In the Victoriana supplement Faces in the Smoke Volume Two: Shadows and Steel, one of the Adventure Hooks for the Fellowship of the Red Pharaoh is hunting for a giant crocodile that has escaped from a London zoo and is hiding in the sewers..
    Toys 
Flush Force has Croco Bile and Chomp Bucket, two sewer-dwelling alligators that wear buckets on their heads.
    Video Games 
Presumably drawing on his representation in the animated series, Killer Croc is usually found in the sewers in some Batman games.
In Lego Batman, he's chased through the sewers before a boss fight with him. The corresponding villain level begins in the sewers and involves him leading the Penguin through said sewers to rescue Catwoman from the police station (apparently right before leading the Dynamic Duo on the chase that ends in his defeat).
In Batman: Arkham Asylum, Croc's 'cell' is actually a network of disused sewers on Arkham Island, beneath the asylum itself. Hardly surprising, since it's unlikely any normal cell would fit him; he's stated as being eleven feet tall! Croc never escapes the sewers during the Joker's takeover, but Batman has to descend into the sewers to find a certain plant to cure Titan transformation...and to apprehend the Scarecrow.
In the second game of the Batman: Arkham Series, Batman: Arkham City, Croc's new 'home' within Arkham City is the sewer network right beneath it. He's also taken over parts of the subway in there as well. Croc is never encountered unless you do something specific at a certain point in the game. Do this, and a short cutscene in the sewer where he and Batman talk will play, and you can then find a small out-of-the-way room in there with a broken mattress and the Shock Collar he wore back at the asylum.
The "Infection" map from the Exo Zombies campaign of Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare has the Insta-Gator trap that summons a pack of alligators to devour any zombie that wanders into the sewer water.
In the "Root Of All Evil" level of Crysis 3 there is a broken pipe with a fish on it and if you interact with the fish, an alligator will swim out. It can even be ridden!
In The Darkside Detective, Twin Lakes is rumored to have them, although McQueen meets a tourist guide who claims to have invented the rumor because he suspected tourists were getting bored with the city's real monsters. Dooley later meets a real one.
In Déjà Vu, you can be attacked by an alligator while in the sewer.
The second level of Ed, Edd n Eddy: The Mis-Edventures primarily takes place in a sewer, and alligators are a common and strong enemy that take multiple hits and deal a lot of damage quickly.
In Fetch Milo fed a baby alligator Gator-Gro before flushing it. This resulted in a monster gator which, once freed from its captivity by Embark, Inc. helps him escape the sewers.
Grim Fandango: One of the puzzles in year 4 is finding a way to get around a huge albino gator that is blocking the way to Bowlsley's sewer hideout.
Manny: I don't see how Sal, with all his crazy conspiracy theories, forgot to mention to me that there were alligators in the sewers.
Jackass The Game: The player has to dodge gators while rafting down the sewers in the "Brown Water Rafting".
Kingdom of Loathing has Sewer Gators living in the Maze of Sewer Tunnels that connect the clan basement with Hobopolis.
The Lethal League character Latch is a cyborg crocodile who makes his home in the sewers of Shine City.
Reptile's ending in Mortal Kombat X. Despite this, it's heartwarming to see Reptile find others of his race in Earthrealm.
Nuclear Throne: The sewer level contains bipedal gator-men mutants. Unlike most videogame examples, these don't do collision damage... instead they wield shotguns and are incredibly dangerous at close range but no threat at far range, creating a similar effect in the run-and-gun format.
Parasite Eve: The final boss of day one is a mutated alligator in the sewers beneath Carnegie Hall.
The GMod monster "Sewer Medic" behaves like one of these; he lives in the sewer, and though he seems to have some intelligence, it's mostly used to warn others to stay out of his sewer. If you don't leave immediately, it won't end well.
In Planescape: Torment, the Trocopotaca is a large, white-skinned monster that resembles a horned alligator that lives in the Drowned Nations underneath the Hive. They're considered myths by most Hive residents.
Psychonauts: Sometimes a plunger-wielding G-Man will say "There are no documented cases of alligators found alive in sewers".
In Resident Evil 2, a gigantic alligator mutated by the T-Virus appears as a boss battle when the player traverses the Raccoon City sewers.
The sixth mission of Superhero League of Hoboken requires the League to defeat fifteen Alligators From Hell that can be found in the New York sewers.
Trio the Punch has alligators emerging from sewer pipes in a Down the Drain level.
True Crime: New York City: There is an alligator at either end of the Sewer Tunnel fight arena.
One of the missions in TY the Tasmanian Tiger 2: Bush Rescue is getting rid of a bunch of crocodiles in the Burramudgee sewers.
Swampy and all the other gators in Where's My Water? live in the sewers of some unnamed city.
Wizard 101: The goal of the "Sell Out" and "Raging Rumors" quests is to retrieve a newspaper from Gamma for Zan'ne because all the other papers were sold due to interest in a story about sewer gators.
Zan'ne: Alligators in the sewers? They're everywhere!
World of Warcraft:
A level 50 albino crocolisk called the Sewer Beast is a rare spawn in the canals of Stormwind City.
Justin: You know there are crocolisks in the Canals. They were brought from the swamp as pets, but got thrown in the canals.
In the Underbelly section of Dalaran there is a sewer pipe near the Black Market that contains a crocolisk called the Underbelly Croc that snaps at anyone who gets near.
The "Crocolisks in the City" fishing quest requires catching some baby crocolisks that a travelling merchant sold to some gullible children and then escaped into the waterways of Stormwind and Orgrimmar. The reward can include a crocolisk battle pet.
Old Man Barlo: Catch any crocs in the sewers yet?
    Web Comics 
Girl Genius: An albino alligator can be seen snapping at Violetta and Tarvek as they make their way through the sewers of Mechanicsburg.
In Skin Horse Colma, California has zombie gators in the sewers.
Super Stupor has Shockodile, a four-ton electricity-generating crocodile that lives in the sewers — but resents the implication that he eats children to live. He does, just not to live. Oh, and he's a hero.
Uh-Oh, It’s a Dinosaur: "Oh, that's where our liberated zoo animals escaped to..."
    Web Original 
How to Hero features sewer gators as a type of threat superheroes might have to deal with.
At one point toilet gators are mentioned. These are gators that swim up the pipes and bite you while you're using the toilet. The author assures readers that these are very real.
Snopes, naturally, records the classic urban legend about giant alligators living in the New York sewer system.
The Strong Bad Email episode Unnatural, Strong Bad references this trope as an explanation for why Bubs has turned giant. He was right. An Easter Egg shows Strong Bad trying to invoke this on himself.
The SuperMarioLogan episode "Bowser Junior's Broccoli Problem!" has a sewer crocodile, who doesn't like being called an alligator, and infiltrates Junior's house after the latter flushes his broccoli down the toilet. When Chef Pee Pee notices the crocodile looking for food in the kitchen, he overreacts and tries to call a crocodile hunter, but he hears that the hunter died from a stingray attack, and instead calls the Brooklyn Guy to help. At the end, the Brooklyn Guy makes a deal with the crocodile that the latter can be the house's garbage disposal, much to Chef Pee Pee's annoyance and frustration.
The online Bonus Material for season one of Torchwood (no longer available) strongly implied that the "alligators" in the New York sewers are actually Weevils.
    Western Animation 
Aaahh!!! Real Monsters occasionally showed alligators living in the sewers with the monsters. One episode had Ickis learning to ride the alligators as part of a quest.
Archer mentions CHUDs in the "Midnight Ron" episode and Ron thinks the idea of mutants living in the sewers is crap but insists that there are alligators living down there. The idea freaks Archer out due to his phobia about alligators.
Archer: Ron! C'mon, seriously, at some point I'm gonna have to take a shit, so —
Ron: So why didn't you go before we left?
Archer: Not now! In the future! And I won't be able to if I'm thinking about giant alligators rampaging up into my toilet!
Ron: Talk about tearing you a new one...
Archie's Weird Mysteries: The Monster of the Week of the "It Lives in the Sewers" episode is a sewer gator that grew to enormous size and started walking on two legs after being exposed to toxic waste. Originally, it was Jughead's pet before Veronica flushed it and he gets the gator to stop before it does any more damage.
Batman: The Animated Series:
Killer Croc generally uses the sewers of Gotham as a hideout and means of stealth travel.
The episode "The Underdwellers" has sewer gators in droves. They're actually the Sewer King's pets and they are so loyal that they don't attack him when he falls into their pool.
The Batman: This show's version of Killer Croc is essentially a crocodile Lizard Man (rather than the human-with-a-skin-condition seen in others) who uses the sewers as his base of operations and plans to flood the city to make looting banks easier. He even has his own pet alligators (though they weren't seen coming along with him to Gotham, so it's possible he managed to tame local sewer gators).
Ben 10: Alien Force: Ben mentions the possibility of alligators while going into the sewers in the "Vengeance of Vilgax, Part 2" episode which manages to freak Kevin out.
Ben: Hey, I wonder if there are any alligators down here.
Kevin: Alligators?
Ben: Yeah. I heard that people get baby alligators as pets, and flush them down the toilet. They grow gigantic in the sewers!
Kevin: Maybe I should go up and guard the exit.
Ben: Ooooohhhh! Big tough Kevin is scared of alligators!
Gwen: There are no alligators. That's just an urban myth.
Kevin: Yeah, and we're supposed to be an urban myth too.
Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers has Sewernose de Bergerac from the "A Case of Stage Blight" episode. Sewernose grew obsessed with the opera after being flushed into the sewers beneath a theatre when he was young and is quite insane.
Creature Comforts: An alligator appears in the "Animals in the Hood" episode that praises her sewer dwelling and dismisses the idea it could have a dampness problem.
DuckTales (1987): While searching the sewers in the "A Drain on the Economy" episode, the Beagle Boys dress up as a gator to frighten off the nephews. Then the Beagle Boys run into a real sewer gator.
Louie: Uh, is it true that alligators live in the sewers?
Huey: Well, according to the Junior Woodchuck Guidebook-Aah!
In an episode of El Tigre: The Adventures of Manny Rivera, while racing through a sewer, Puma Loco, Manny, and Friday, encounter an albino sewer gator.
The Dimmsdale Sewer Gator from the The Fairly OddParents episode, "Ruled Out". It has 800 teeth and eats anything that moves.
Timmy: It's violent and educational, but mostly violent! Yay, violence!
A sewer gator showed up in the "No Chris Left Behind" episode of Family Guy, interrupting one of the fights between Peter and Ernie the Giant Chicken. It was not a good idea on the gator's part.
At the end of "A House Full of Peters", after a visit from all the children he helped make with a sperm donation, Peter says that all his sperm will now be going into the bathroom sink. The scene then pans down into a sewer full of Peter-like gators and rats. And even a Peter-gator-rat hybrid!
Peter-Gator-Rat: We have fun down here.
An episode of Freaky Stories is about a young boy who flushes his pet baby alligator down the toilet because his parents won't let him keep it. As an adult, he encounters the now-grown alligator while he is working in the sewers.
Futurama: Parodied in the "I Second That Emotion" episode when Bender, Fry and Leela meet a community of Mutants living in the sewers.
Fry: So, is it true that alligators flushed down the toilet survive here?
Supreme Mutant: No, that's just an urban legend.
Fry: Then what are those? (gestures to a pool full of them)
Female Mutant: Crocodiles. (snorts)
Supreme Mutant: We keep them as pets, then when they grow too large, we flush them down into the sub-sewer.
Garfield and Friends: In "Attack of the Mutant Guppies", instead of alligators, Garfield claims that unwanted guppies get flushed down the sewer and mutate to gigantic, aggressive monsters (because of sewer chemicals).
In the Goof Troop episode "Big City Blues", one of the potential dangers in the city Pete lists off are "croco-gators in the sewers".
Johnny Test and Dukey met a sewer gator when they got turned into fish and flushed down the toilet in one episode.
One episode of Mr. Bogus had Bogus and Brattus get eaten by an alligator while they are in the sewer, but escape, before calling on the help of this gator in order to help them stop Ratty, Mole, and a trio of biker rats.
In the "Newt York, Newt York" episode of Ned's Newt, Ned is excited to go to New York City for the weekend because an xylophone note is on sale there, but his parents cancel it after hearing the urban legend that alligators live in the sewers. Ned and Newton go to NYC anyway, and try to "blend in with the locals" until they fall into a manhole by accident that leads to the sewers. Soon they come across a gang of alligators that lived in the sewers ever since their musical on Broadway closed down. They help the alligators find a pipe that leads back to their home in Florida, and one week later Ned finally gets the xylophone note that he wanted.
Roger from The Penguins of Madagascar is a sewer gator who is good friends with the penguins.
Phineas and Ferb: Candace fights one in "Fireside Girls Jamboree" to get a "wrestling an alligator in a sewer patch".
Candace: Alligator, you're goin' down!
Robot Chicken:
In the second DC Comics special, "Villains in Paradise", Captain Cold flushes Starro down the toilet and Brainiac starts complaining.
Brainiac: You shouldn't flush those things. That's how New York got giant alligators in the sewers.
Captain Cold: That's just an urban legend.
Killer Croc: Oh, you think so? (everyone sits awkwardly for a few seconds, not saying a word, as Killer Croc silently walks offscreen)
Starro returns while they are at the beach and is bigger than ever.
Martian Manhunter: It's Starro! Like a mighty New York City sewer alligator!
Brainiac: I'd hate to say I Told You So. That is a lie. I tol... (Starro crushes him)
Sam & Max: Freelance Police:
Sam and Max adopt a baby alligator in the "That Darn Gator" episode after Max vacuums it up from the toilet. Max names the reptile John, because "that's where we found him". Their own attempts flush John away when he gets too big to handle only manages to get his head stuck.
Geek: What are you doing?
Sam: Returning John to the life he once knew.
Max: To the wild of the sewers system suit.
There is a nod to this in the "They Came From Down There" episode while Sam & Max are in sewers.
Max: Look, Sam, baby alligators!
Sam: Well they're buoyant and log-shaped, but they're hardly alligators.
Max: I don't feel so good.
The Simpsons:
A sewer gator appears trapped in the Simpsons toilet — and battling Grampa — in "Marge in Chains":
Bart: We flushed the gator down the toilet, but it got stuck halfway, and now we have to feed it.
The "Treehouse of Horror XV - The Ned Zone" episode has Ned gaining the ability to foresee people's deaths in a parody of "The Dead Zone". Ned has a flash of Hans Moleman being eaten alive by alligators and drops him in shock down an open manhole where he is ripped apart by gators.
While visiting Springfield's Chinatown in "A Hunka Hunka Burns in Love", Lisa thinks it must be Chinese New Year when the family sees a dragon dance coming down the street. Then some animal control officers tranquilise the "dragon" and take it away.
Animal Control Guy: People buy them when they're small and cute, then they flush them down the toilet.
"A Tree Grows in Springfield": After he falls down an open manhole, Homer tries to get help from a inquisitive alligator that he calls Flushie. According to the label around its neck, Flushie was a gift from Homer to Bart for his 8th birthday.
Leatherhead in most incarnations of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is an alligator who ended up in the city sewers and was exposed to the same mutagen as the turtles, resulting in him growing into Lizard Folk and becoming sapient.
Teen Titans Go!: When Raven returns from being flushed down the toilet in the "Animals, It's Just a Word!" episode, she's befriended a mutated sewer gator and sewer rat who help her fight off Cinderblock.
The Tick: In the "The Tick vs. Filth" episode, Tick and Arthur are attacked by giant lobsters in the sewers and Sewer Urchin chases them off with melted butter and lemon.
Tick: (Distressed) What happened? What was that? What is it with the lobsters?
Sewer Urchin: Sewer lobsters, Tick.
Tick: I thought there were alligators in the sewer! I mean, I was ready for alligators!
Sewer Urchin: Ah, no. That's definitely a myth. We got lobsters.
Tom and Jerry Tales: After Tom and Jerry drive through the New York sewers in "Joy Riding Jokers", they are more than a little surprised to see that a white alligator somehow managed to get in the car's back seat.
Total Drama World Tour: Part of the challenge for the "Broadway, Baby" episode involves the teams driving boats from the Statue of Liberty through the sewers to Central Park. While down there, the teams are chased by a giant, white alligator that manages to sallow Team Amazon and their boat whole. The "DJ's First Pet" exclusive clip reveals that the gator was originally DJ's pet that he called Vince and accidentally flushed down the toilet.
    Real Life 
Gators actually can roam in the sewers of certain areas, such as Florida and Mississippi. Most of this is due to sewer lines being next to swampy areas filled with alligators, and said gators could find themselves running into and entering through a sewer pipe.
With that in mind, this is averted with the most famous area of purported Sewer Gator presence: there are no alligators in New York's sewers, flushed pet or otherwise. Reasons given for this include that there's not enough food for them down there, it's too cold for them to survive, and that the sewers fill up completely when it rains and they would drown.
Unnervingly, there have been instances of snakes ending up in sewer systems, and crawling their way up into toilet bowls.

The Inspector Is Coming
"Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh."
— Matthew 25:13, The Bible
In media involving certain businesses, it is inevitable that a specialized inspector, or critic, will come sooner or later to rate the business, usually holding its fate by his/her rating. Cue the employees working hard to keep everything in good condition to get a passable rating.
Hilarity Ensues if someone unrelated gets mistaken for the inspector. For the domestic variation, see House Inspection. In military settings, see the subtrope The Inquisitor General, while police settings will have Internal Affairs.
As many - particularly those in retail/customer service environments - can tell you, this is very much Truth in Television. Nothing can strike fear into the heart of a retail employee quite like the words "corporate visit."
 Advertising 
In one A&W Canada commercial the fast food restaurant is visited by a food critic. Fortunately, he finds the food "formidable."
Allen: That's good, right?
It is, by the way. "Formidablé" is french for "great."
     Anime and Manga  
File 6 of You're Under Arrest! revolves around this trope with the arrival of Inspector Takao Arizuka, played up as being The Dreaded. In actuality he enjoys the reputation and will pick on even the smallest misconduct, amused by what he finds and judges Bokuto to be sloppy but staffed by good officers, and his good nature gives way to let them slide.
     Comics  
In the Rantanplan comics (a spin-off of the Lucky Luke comics), inspectors visit the prison both announced and unannounced very frequently. In the album Rantanplan otage (Rantanplan taken hostage) an overly eager inspector pays surprise inspections to the prison almost every day. In Le Clown (The clown), an inspector visits the prison unannounced twice, and both times at the worst possible moment (the first time when the prison director has to take care of the spoiled son of an army colonel, and tries to please him by buying expensive food like lamb meat. The second time when the director has just invited a circus over to the prison because Rantanplan and the aforementioned son were working there as clowns. The inspector becomes a Running Gag, often leaving the penitentiary far less happy than he came in, which reflects badly on the possibilities of promotion for the head warden, which in turn reflects badly on Pavlov. In "The Fugitive", he takes away Rantanplan's food bowl while he's still eating (not a good idea), getting him replaced by a hypercompetent dog. The wardens train the new dog to attack the inspector to return to Status Quo.
In one Donald Duck story, the restaurant where Donald works expects a visit from a restaurant inspector. When a man dressed in a fancy suit arrives, Donald suspects him to be the inspector and goes to great lenghts to please the man, all while inconveniencing and ignoring another guest. Eventually, that other guest is revealed to be the real inspector, who by now is so fed up by Donald's antics and the poor services that he takes away all of the restaurants stars, and the man in the suit turns out to be just a traveling salesman.
     Films — Animated  
In Ratatouille, two inspectors visit at the same time. The plot mainly focuses on Anton Ego, an infamous restaurant critic whose previous review has already cost the restaurant one of its Michelin star ratings. But while Remy and the other rats are preparing the food, a health inspector shows up unannounced. In the end, Anton Ego is very satisfied with the food and gives the restaurant a good review, but the health inspector has the restaurant closed down because of the rodent infestation.
     Films — Live-Action  
The Inspector General is a Danny Kaye movie, in which a vagrant is arrested in a small European town, and is mistakenly believed to be an inspector from the crown. It's based on the below-mentioned play, The Government Inspector.
The old Polish comedy Gangsters and Philantropists featured a story about a hapless lab technician who accidentally takes a hydrometer with him after leaving work. He goes to a restaurant, orders a drink and absentmindedly starts stirring the drink with the hydrometer. The restaurant manager sees this and thinks that the guy is a government inspector testing if the restaurant is watering its drinks. As the protagonist is leaving the restaurant he is handed an envelope with money as a bribe to not report the restaurant. Once he figures out what happened he starts regularly going to restaurants with lab instruments and supplements his income with the bribe money. Later he resorts to weighing steaks once the alcohol amounts prove to be too much.
In We Bought a Zoo, Ferris seems very harsh and acts like a jerk, but once he can't find any faults with the restored zoo, he passes them and wishes Benjamin good luck, although he still maintains that the zoo will probably fail and refuses to attend, as this would count as fraternization. There's also no proof beyond MacReady's word that Ferris stole his ideas.
Ocean's Thirteen: The crew makes Willy Bank think that Saul is a hotel reviewer, causing Willy to bend over backwards to make Saul's stay as comfortable as possible while being completely dismissive of the actual reviewer. Meanwhile, the rest of Ocean's crew proceed to make the real reviewer's stay an absolute hell. They Throw the Dog a Bone after Willy is ruined by rigging a machine to give the reviewer eleven million dollars.
In the opening scenes of My Best Friend's Wedding, the staff of a restaurant fuss over a single dish because a food critic, the protagonist herself, is in the house.
     Literature  
In George McDonald Fraser's semi-autobiographical tales of Army life, The General Danced At Dawn, the General of the title story is conducting a full inspection of the Gordon Highlanders, who lurch from one catastrophe to another. The only things that save the Scottish soldiers are Highland dancing and bagpipe music - at the General's instigation, the Regiment dance progressively longer and more complex Highland dances until they break the world record with a 256-some. This pulls in Arabs and German prisoners-of-war to make up the numbers.
The kids' book Win One For The Sloths by Helen Lester has the sloth class being checked up on and the ways the sloths try to convince him they're learning and the class should stay open, despite their extreme love of napping.
One Jennings plot involves a visit by a school inspector. Various of the pupils, having got the wrong end of the stick, believe that the visitor is a gas inspector or a ticket inspector.
Recycled In Space with Allamagoosa by Eric Frank Russell. The crew of a spaceship are informed that the Head Inspector will be turning up, and are thrown into a panic because their ship's manifest lists an "offog" among the ship components, and no-one knows what it is. They avert the crisis by building a box with blinking lights and throwing a load of Techno Babble at the inspector when he asks what the offog does. Then they're told the ship is returning to Earth for a complete overhaul. Knowing the same trick won't work on the engineers carrying out this task, they send a message claiming the offog exploded under gravitational stress. Unfortunately the offog turns out to be a typo for "off. dog" (e.g. the ship's mascot), and all ships are grounded until the problem of how dogs can explode in space is rectified.
     Live Action TV  
Used twice in Fawlty Towers:
"The Hotel Inspectors" has Basil mistaking an officious idiot for a hotel inspector. He does not react well when he discovers he has been buttering up an ordinary guest - and exacts retribution against him in front of three real hotel inspectors.
"Basil the Rat" features a surprise visit from the health inspector; Basil initially does not recognise him and thinks he is sniffing the raw meat in the fridge because he is a scavenger.
In The Nanny episode "The Butler, the Husband, the Wife and Her Mother", Niles is anticipating the arrival of inspectors of the Professional Butler's Association to determine whether he's qualified to join. Unfortunately, Fran's mother Sylvia is trying to impress their in-laws by telling them that Fran's married to Maxwell Sheffield, and with Maxwell out at the time they arrive, Fran makes Niles pretend he's Maxwell. Worse, the inspectors arrive to evaluate Niles' performance. When Maxwell returns, Maxwell has to pretend he's Niles.
In M*A*S*H, there are a number of episodes with this trope as the focus.
In one, Father Mulcahy becomes highly tense when he learns that the head chaplain of the army was coming to inspect his good works.
In another, a particularly harsh top-level nurse comes to inspect Margaret's nursing staff, which results in Margaret herself becoming particularly harsh in an effort to satisfy her (she is relieved and happy at the end of the episode when the inspector rates her staff "satisfactory").
Somewhat lampshaded in another episode, where an inspector comes to learn about how the 4077 runs in order to duplicate it... but the entire camp becomes overrun with speculation that the inspector plans on breaking the camp up.
Season 2 opens with a psychiatrist inspecting the camp in response to reports of erratic, unmilitary behaviour, with the goal of seeing if the camp should be split up. He's simultaneously shocked by their "childish" antics and impressed by their professionalism once the choppers arrive, arguing that the only thing madder than the camp would be breaking it up.
Typically averted when top brass shows up; the doctors (aside from Frank Burns) don't care what generals think of them (and usually end up impressing them to no end).
The Beverly Hillbillies: a "rich" socialite from back home comes to visit the Clampetts, with the Hidden Agenda of trying to marry Jed for his money. She gives the place the once over.
Adeline: I just wanted to see where some of these things is from. I see most of 'em is from France and England.
Granny: That's good, isn't it?
Adeline: Not to me. All my stuff comes from much further away than that. It's made in Japan.
Often very subverted and inverted on Kitchen Nightmares. Despite the fact these owners know that Gordon Ramsey is coming by with a full camera crew to have them on national television, they still will have some of the single most disgusting kitchens imaginable. More than once, Gordon has found the kitchen and food storage in such horrific conditions that he's ordered the entire place shut down for a massive clean-up.
Of all places, the infamous Amy's Baking Company actually did clean up first to the point Gordon noted it was the cleanest kitchen he'd ever seen on the show. Too bad the owners were absolute lunatics with horrific food, treatment of staff and egos that drove Gordon to just quit on them.
CSI: NY has an episode with the lab being inspected. She can't find a lot of faults but does fault Lindsay for leaving evidence out and endangering the chain of custody because Danny, er, distracted her. She also flirts a bit with Mac, reminding him of a time before his wife died when they got a little drunk and kissed at a party. Mac admits he didn't exactly hate it, but is firm that he loved his wife and would never have gone any further.
Mystery Science Theater 3000: this is how Mike Nelson was introduced in the series. In episode "Mitchell" the mads expected an audit from the Fraternal Order of Mad Science, so they hired temp worker Mike Nelson to help them get Deep 13 in good condition for the inspection. Considering the fact that they were still in business in later episodes, they most likely passed.
The Dutch reality show De Smaakpolitie (the taste police) is all about this trope. In the show, host Rob Geus visits restaurants to check the kitchen. The trope is downplayed a little however by the fact that Rob Geus is not a licenced health inspector, so the restaurant owners can deny him access to the kitchen, and although Rob can give the owner advice on how to improve the conditions in the kitchen, he is not authorized to actually give the restaurant a fine if he finds any violations.
The Car 54, Where Are You? episode "Toody and Muldoon Crack Down" is set in motion by a visit to the 53rd precinct by a chief inspector, who is outraged at the number of minor violations (sidewalk obstructions, unauthorised loudspeakers, etc.) that Toody and Muldoon are allowing to go unpunished. He quickly changes his tune when he discovers that although their sector is rife with minor violations, there have been no major crimes in their sector in the nine years they've been patrolling it, and that they are near universally beloved by the local residents and business owners as friendly, helpful, and reliable.
Grange Hill naturally had at least one story arc featuring the dreaded OFSTED paying the school a visit.
Community: at the end of Season 5, Greendale Community College is visited by a fastidious insurance appraiser. Somewhat subverted to the extent that the school does pass the test... which triggers a crisis since it is now deemed a bona fide asset and the board decides to make a profit by selling it off.
Northern Exposure has a youthful inspector visit Holling Vincoeur's restaurant. He seems nice at first... until he recalls gleefully how he once brought down his own father's restaurant.
Emergency! had a variation with the fire chief coming. This usually means the station is going to be inspected, and Captain Stanley drove the crew nuts with his paranoia and wanting everything in tip-top shape before the chief got there.
This is how Dominic is introduced in Power Rangers Jungle Fury by posing as Health Inspector Fuller to gain access to the kitchen where he reunites with an old friend, RJ.
In the Angel episode "Reprise", the evil Occult Law Firm Wolfram & Hart is awaiting a visit from a Senior Partner. Every employee of Wolfram & Hart knows that this being is an extremely terrifying demon, and interprets the situation with the understanding that a bad performance rating would mean certain death.
    Radio 
The plotline of multiple episodes of The Men from the Ministry features the arrival of an inspector to the Ministry, with the General Assistance Department always desperately attempting to make it look like they're doing a lot of work instead of slacking all day.
     Theater  
The Inspector General by Nikolai Gogol is the Trope Maker for the Mistaken for Special Guest variety. Corrupt local government officials panic when they hear there's an inspector in town, but the guy they suspect of being him is a case of mistaken identity. And yes, the real inspector is on the way.
In Accidental Death of an Anarchist, The Maniac is able to pull off his impersonation because the police are expecting the visit of a judge to investigate the death.
The Broken Jug (Der zerbrochne Krug) by Heinrich von Kleist has an inspector coming to a rural law court - at a time very inconvenient to the judge.
     Video Games  
The Open for Business expansion pack for The Sims 2 lets you become a business owner. Once in a while a writer will come in and inspect your business, and depending on the state that it's in, will either give you a positive or negative review, affecting your business accordingly. You can do positive interactions and improve the environment to increase your chances of a good review. Bad interactions with either you, your staff, or other customers will make it more likely for them to write a negative one.
One of Harry the Handsome Executive's assignments is to destroy all traces of a dangerous substance invented by ScumCo R&D before the health inspector arrives.
An occasional event in Cook, Serve, Delicious! involves a health inspector showing up, and the player has to make sure that no chores are failed whenever she is around. Pass, and the player gets a boost to their buzz percentage and, whenever necessary, one step closer to one of their star upgrade criteria being met.
In The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, one of the Thieves' Guild quests involves you putting rat poison into a meadery's still so they fail inspection, and a competitor (your client) can buy up the defunct business.
     Web Original  
Ultra Fast Pony: Has had two episodes dealing with inspectors during their abridged version of "The Equestria Games" arc. This includes the same episode below in the original show and the latest episode Keep It Clean.
Alice and the Nightmare has Phanty U's student campus inspected by the military on the very second day of the schoolyear.
In The Grossery Gang, mentions of the health inspector's rating of the Yucky Mart have been brought up. The convenience store has an F rating.
     Western Animation  
Rocket Power: one episode the Shore Shack is visited by an inspector, who lowers the shack's rating because Raymundo uses a surf board as an improvised lid for the trash cans outside.
SpongeBob SquarePants:
In one episode, a health inspector visits the Krusty Krab. Mr. Krabs and Spongebob "kill" him with a bad Krabby Patty (thinking he was the fake inspector mentioned on TV) and try to bury him, but he's still alive.
In another episode, the Krusty Krab gets a visit from a prominent food critic. Despite everyone's best efforts, the critic dislikes everything there, except for SpongeBob, which leads to Mr. Krabs going overboard with making everything SpongeBob-themed, down to serving rotten patties that look yellow and spongy.
The very first episode of Bob's Burgers has this plot. The health inspector, Hugo, becomes a recurring Sitcom Archnemesis determined to shut down the restaurant because he's jealous of Bob's marriage to Linda.
Beavis And Butthead: a health inspector visits the boys while they're working at Burger World.
Futurama: The beginning of "How Hermes Requisitioned His Groove Back".
On House of Mouse, the club is expecting a critic. Mortimer is mistaken for the critic and takes advantage of Mickey's hospitality.
Stōked: "The Very Very Very Very Very Important Guest" is about the resort expecting the arrival of a well-known hotel reviewer.
Camp Lazlo: In "The Weakest Link", Edward attempts to get the Jelly Beans out of camp before Commander Hoo-Ha makes his inspection, and sends them on a wild goose chase to find an endangered rock. Unfortunately, part of the inspection is that at least one camper is capable of starting a fire, and Lazlo turns out to be the only one capable of doing so at the time, resulting in the rest of the campers having to go find him.
The My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic episode "Games Ponies Play" revolves around an inspector coming to evaluate the Crystal Empire's worthiness to host the Equestria Games. The Mane Six mistake a random tourist for the inspector for carrying a similar bag and do everything they can to impress her, while the real inspector is left waiting and has a less than hospitable stay. Eventually the tourist and inspector meet up in a spa where the tourist chats about the wonderful time she had, which convinces the inspector to pass the empire.
A rare case of this happening with a school happens in the "School Daze" two-parter. In order for Twilight's new "School of Friendship" to be fully accredited by the EEA, Chancellor Neighsay has to visit it to ensure it conforms to EEA standards. Unfortunately, Twilight's obsession with doing everything "by the book" ends up stifling and stressing both the teachers(her friends) and the students, to the point where several students decide to skip class on the day Neighsay is scheduled to arrive. On top of that, it turns out Neighsay is a Fantastic Racist, who dislikes the fact that the school is open to non-ponies and consequently shuts it down.note  In the end, Twilight decides that her school doesn't have to be accredited and reopens it without Neighsay's approval.
This happens numerous times on The Simpsons in various forms. The nuclear plant has gotten many surprise inspections, including one in which Homer manages to botch a test so badly that he melts down a van despite there being no nuclear material in it. Moe Szyslak gets visited by a health inspector which he knows well...except he dies there. When the new inspector comes, Moe hasn't even cleaned up the body of the previous health inspector.
The Fairly OddParents has two episodes in which Cosmo and Wanda receives an inspection from Jorgen Von Strangle. In the first one, "Inspection Detection", they pass at the last moment when Timmy quickly makes a lot of wishes for them to grant. In the second one, "Where's Wanda", Cosmo passes, but Wanda is given a level 14 probation and send back to fairy school.
Taz-Mania has an episode where Bob (the manager of the hotel where Taz is working) expects a hotel critic. Unfortunately, he mistakes Foghorn Leghorn for said critic (their names are similar). The mistake isn't discovered until the end of the episode, at which point Taz is very eager to follow Bob's order to stop Leghorn's hiccups by scaring him.
Happens twice to A. Nigma High School in Detentionaire. Both times, Principal General Barrage goes to great lengths to pass, even threatening to cancel the school dance the second time if they don't make it.
Lilo & Stitch: The Series: The B-plot of the episode "Holio" has Nani trying to help her boss fix up the Rental Hut to impress an inspector from a big rental company who wants to work with them. However, Lilo constantly getting into trouble is making it difficult for her to do.
In Central Park, Season 1 "Live It Up Tonight", Mayor Whitebottom sends an auditor named Anita to do a surprise audit to see if she can find any dirt on Owen and she came close to getting Owen fired because Elwood threw away a receipt.

Pietà Plagiarism
Michelangelo Buonarroti's sculpture depicting Mary holding the body of the crucified Christ is the best-known example of one of the most popular poses in art. There is a whole class of artwork, referred to as "pietàs", that depict Mary (usually seated) holding the dead Jesus, going back to at least the early 14th century. It includes two other pieces by Michelangelo himself—one in the Cathedral Museum in Florence and known as the Deposition or Florentine Pietà, the other one in the Castello Sforzesco in Milan and known as the Rondanini Pieta, as well as a third work in the Academia in Florence not generally attributed to Michelangelo today.
This specific pose is often used either following a Heroic Sacrifice or on a comic book cover, in which case it will likely be accompanied by a Tonight, Someone Dies. It's frequently gender-flipped (i.e. the man holding a dead/dying/comatose woman), perhaps because the latter is considered more dramatic in modern media. (And because if the pose is standing, it's easier to accept a man holding up a woman's lighter weight.)
May be mixed with Touch of the Monster. Sister Trope to Cradling Your Kill, Cradle of Loneliness, and Died in Your Arms Tonight. See also Background Halo and Sistine Steal for related subliminal symbolism. Compare Messianic Archetype, Madonna Archetype, "Last Supper" Steal and Crucified Hero Shot for other examples of frequently homaged Christ-iconography. See also Crisis Catch And Carry.
Owes its existence to Pop-Cultural Osmosis.
Pieta Plagiarism / Anime & Manga
Death Note:
The first opening sequence features Naomi Misora◊ cradling (apparently recently killed) fiancee Raye Penber about halfway through as just one of countless biblical references.
Also, Light Yagami holds L's dead body in this position, while grinning evilly after L dies in his arms.
Final Fantasy VII Advent Children used this in promotional artworks, most notably for the front cover of the OST. It shows Cloud and Kadaj◊.
CC in the first Code Geass OP. It's self-conscious, given that she seems to be in a church.
Suzaku pulls this off absolutely straight with Euphemia...
CLAMP have drawn an illustration of Suzaku holding Lelouch. As have the animators for offical art (Warning:MAJOR SPOILERS) Also overlaps with Cradling Your Kill.
Another illustration has Lelouch carrying a passed-out Shirley this way.
In Hunter × Hunter: Meruem does this to Komugi after she is grievously injured by Zeno Zoldyck's Dragon Dive, with his Face Framed in Shadow to keep his reaction ambiguous. The roles are reversed when Meruem finally succumbs to radiation poisoning.
The Mazinger series:
Mazinger Z: Several times in the manga and in the anime series Kouji held Sayaka -or vice versa- in that position, usually when one of them lay unconscious on the ground. Actually the cover of one of the volumes features a grim-looking Kouji holding a fainted Sayaka◊.
UFO Robo Grendizer: It happened near from the end, when Rubina got murdered and Duke held her as she died.
Sailor Moon R does this near the end, when Prince Dimando carries his brother Safiiru's lifeless body away of the battlefield, after he's killed by Wiseman. This is repeated in the S season, after Super Sailor Moon rescues Sailor Saturn from her last fight with Pharaoh 90 and takes her back to Earth, now as a newborn baby, in her arms.
Space Warrior Baldios: At the end of the movie, that is how Marin holds Aphrodia as he treads around a desolate beach After the End.
The DVD cover for Anime Legends: Wolf's Rain Complete Collection II depicts (among other things) Kiba holding Cheza in his arms. Which should be impossible, because (in case there's anyone who isn't aware of the show's basic concept) Kiba is actually a wolf and is only projecting the illusion of being human - he doesn't really have arms, and couldn't possibly hold this pose in wolf form - it would look pretty silly too.
Turns out this is an actual scene from the show. Presumably he's actually carrying her on his back.
In addition, it isn't as though weight would be an issue, seeing as how Cheza is literally a flower. Within the context of the show, it seems significant that she's the only one able to be carried like that by the wolves.
Quite unsurprisingly given the title, the Girls' Love manga Pieta uses this pose at a climactic moment, with one of the protagonists holding the other after the latter's suicide attempt.
Used on the spoileriffic Vol. 6 cover of Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha StrikerS Japanese DVD, which has Subaru cradling the seemingly dead body of her older sister Ginga.
Daram holds his girlfriend Harulu like this After the End of Space Runaway Ideon. It is especially poignant since both characters are dead at that time and appear as spirits. Don't ask.
Ranma ½ several times, but at least twice in a definite parallel: first, a chapter-cover illustration with Ryoga thus cradling an unconscious Akane during an ice-skating battle; second, at the end of the series when Ranma thinks Akane has died.
One chapter of Majin Tantei Nougami Neuro ends with X holding Yako like this. An image of the sculpture is behind them, except Mary and Jesus are wearing bondage masks.
In One Piece, Usopp holds Sanji like this when he thinks he's dead. Turned out he was just checking the wrong side of his chest for a heartbeat.
In Fullmetal Alchemist, Alphonse carries Ed into Winry's house that way.
Armstrong holds a dead child like this as seen here.
Also seen when Riza Hawkeye is dying from having her throat slit. Roy Mustang cradles her Pieta-style, urging her to stay with him, until May Chang performs the alkahestry ritual that saves her life. Once he realizes she's going to live, Mustang scoops her up again the same way, this time pressing his face into her hair.
The cover art for Volume 13 of Berserk has a bloody Guts, minus a hand and an eye, holding a naked and unconscious Casca like this, in what is presumably the aftermath of Casca being raped by Femto.
Gundam:
There is official art of Heero from Mobile Suit Gundam Wing holding Relena this way. She returns the favor in Endless Waltz, when Heero collapses out of exhaustion when it's all said and done and Relena catches him mid-fall, then cradles him gently to her.
In Mobile Fighter G Gundam, this is done with Gundams twice. The first is when the old Shuffle Alliance heal their successors◊ through a Heroic Sacrifice. The second is after the Shining Gundam is destroyed, seen here◊.
In Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny, after Meer Campbell dies in the arms of Lacus Clyne, her friend and unrequited crush Athrun briefly carried around her dead body as well.
And some time before that, Shinn Asuka carried Stellar Louissier's body after she perished in his arms, as tear stream down his face.
In Yu Yu Hakusho, after Toguro kills Genkai, Yusuku holds her in his arms, telling her not to die.
And Itsuki holds his lover and leader Sensui's body after he dies.
Yu-Gi-Oh!. Yami pulls this with Yugi after defeating the latter in a duel, the price of which was at least one of their souls, in the episode "Self Destruction (Showdown! The Two Yugis)".
In Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's, Yusei carries Ruka this way after her traumatic and exhausting duel with Professor Frank. (Fortunately, she lives.)
Pokémon Adventures:
Red holds an unconscious Yellow in this fashion, and to drive the point home, they're both frozen in stone in this position for presumably some time.
Wallace briefly holds Steven's dead body in this manner.
At the near-end of the series of Tokyo Mew Mew, used twice with Tart and Pudding and Kish and Ichigo. The former being the dead one in both cases.
Saint Seiya: When Seiya saves Saori from crows and then catches her before landing◊
In the anime, this is also pulled by Hyoga, who carries Shun in his arms after the other almost sacrifices himself for him, holding Hyoga in his own arms and then burning his Cosmo to its limits to literally de-freeze him.
The second opening of Soul Eater shows Soul holding Maka in this fashion, like this◊. Never happens in the series, though.
Tetsuya emerges from a burning building carrying Luna this way in Casshern Sins. Cue music, then the single-handed Curb Stomping of an entire robot army.
A slightly more frightening example appears in Tsubasa -RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE- in the arc that delves into Kurogane's past. During this part, the character, in a bloody, senseless rage, ends up being shown, his entire face, except for his eyes, totally shadowed, holding his mother's bloody corpse. This goes on for quite some time, with the only other feature being shown being the occasional appearance of his mouth, usually open in a shout or growl. Then finally, the character Tsukiyomi stops him and, in an attempt to calm him, closes his dead mother's eyes, telling him that she should rest. During this whole time, he never once dropped his mother's body. here it is
In Eureka Seven episode 13, Renton carried the unconscious Eureka this way when Nirvash started to move on its own.
The last we see of Hei in the final episode of Darker Than Black Ryuusei no Gemini was him carrying Yin this way. Yin's fate is left unknown.
In Naruto, while Neji dies in the arms of the title character, a short while later his best friend and rival Lee is seen cradling his corpse while crying for his death.
Used in The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword manga, with Hylia holding the just-died Link.
Several instances in Fist of the North Star:
After the death of Shin, Kenshiro holds him in this position before placing him in his grave.
There are two instances where both the carrier and the carry-ee both die: Toki and Ryuga and Kaioh and Hyo, the latter of which is accentuated by being encased in lava from an erupting volcano, effectively petrifying them in that pose forever.
During the first opening of Fate/Apocrypha we see Assassin of Red holding Shirou Kotomine in the pose while in a church. Subverted when the screen turns red, revealing Shirou on a throne with the Servants of Red surrounding him.
Pieta Plagiarism / Comic Books
The SpongeBob SquarePants comic "Annual 2" features a parody of superhero comics in which Squidward, as the Squishy Knight, holds SpongeBob like this in a spoof of Crisis on Infinite Earths #7.
Many, many comic books. The examples below are just a brief overview; for another, see Cracked's 20 Annoying 'Modern' Trends That Are Older Than You Think.
Wizard magazine #179 (Sept. 2006) dedicated two whole pages to showing every comic book cover that used this pose (many of the ones listed here included), tracing it all the way back to Space Adventures #24 from July 1958.
Superman:
The cover of Crisis on Infinite Earths #7, showing Superman carrying Supergirl's dead body, is one of the best known examples in comic books, and is frequently referenced and/or parodied itself and has generated a deluge of merchandising, effectively making the origin of the trope Older Than They Think for anyone who isn't aware that this cover itself is copying an older work, though it differentiates itself by Supes standing, tears streaming and crying out in grief.
The cover art for the 1998 collected edition◊, by George Pérez (who drew the original series) and Alex Ross (of Kingdom Come fame), mirrors the pose with Kal-L, the Earth-2 (and Golden Age) Superman, holding the body of his world's Wonder Woman alongside Earth-1 Superman and Supergirl.
Inverted here.
Superman did this to Supergirl◊ long before the Crisis in War World. A reviewer made the next quip: "Again with the anticipation. Superman cradling a Supergirl literally at death’s door. All they need now is copious amounts of blood and a sweatband."
Kal-L, the aforementioned Golden Age Superman, does it again in Infinite Crisis with Lois Lane's body. And the next panel is a re-creation of the original Action Comics cover, just in case you didn't notice that it was homage time.
The final page of Final Crisis #6 has Supes doing it again, this time with Batman's corpse. At this point it seems to be mandatory for Crisis comics.
In The Supergirl from Krypton Superman does it twice: he holds Harbinger's body in his arms after she gets killed while protecting Supergirl. Later on, after knocking his brainwashed cousin out, Superman holds her in his arms.
Happens twice in H'el on Earth: Wonder Woman carries Kara in her arms after knocking her out in Supergirl #17, and Superman carries her cousin to safety when she gets kryptonite-poisoning in Superman #17.
Supergirl:
In Supergirl Vol. 5 issue #36, during the New Krypton storyline, Supergirl holds her dying father's body while he dies.
In Red Daughter of Krypton, villain Worldkiller-1 holds a dying Supergirl in his arms before dumping her in the Sun (a move which was fortunate for her and incredibly dumb of him).
In Justice #12 Kara does this to Poison Ivy after knocking her out with a blast of heat vision.
And a drawing◊ by Arthur Suydam of DC zombies has it too, with everyone but Supergirl a zombie, and her with an apple in her mouth.
Many Happy Returns provides two examples: Kara is holding Linda in the cover of the second-to-last issue; and at the end of the story, Linda holds a semi-unconscious Kara in her arms.
In Supergirl (Rebirth) #3, Cyborg Alura holds Kara's foster mother in her arms.
In a classic issue Linda carries her ill college professor in her arms when she flies to the Fortress of Solitude after he passes out.
In Supergirl: Cosmic Adventures in the 8th Grade, Supergirl carries her friend Lena in her arms when she gets gravely injured.
Power Girl:
The seventh issue of Infinite Crisis inverts the iconic "Superman carrying Supergirl'' image when Power Girl -Earth-2's Supergirl- holds her cousin's body while Earth-2 Superman dies.
In the cover of Supergirl vol. 6 #20, Power Girl is holding the body of a dying Kara.
In Gotham City Garage, Batman carries a hurt Batgirl in his arms after Barbara's been knocked down.
Tom Strong #22.
A cover done for a Guardians of the Galaxy storyline that never actually came to be.
X-Men
The cover◊ of Uncanny X-Men #136 (Cyclops holding Dark Phoenix) is equally well known; ironically, it wasn't until the next issue that Phoenix died.
The cover of Uncanny X-Men #255 shows Mystique kneeling, holding the body of Destiny in a pietà pose.
''X-Men Annual" #1 (2006) shows Mystique sitting on the ground holding her injured daughter Rogue.
X-Treme X-Men #2, where the villain arranges a dead (at the time) Psylocke and bloody-and-broken Beast in a reversal of the Pietà. Might be calling back to the Dark Phoenix cover, as a good portion of the fandom indulges in Shipping where these two are concerned.
The cover of Obnoxio the Clown #1 (and only issue, sometimes called Obnoxio the Clown vs. the X-Men) has Obnoxio holding Kitty Pryde's body like this - and cracking a joke.
Most recently in the cover◊ of Wolverine and the X-Men Vol. 2, Issue 11 is one of the more direct references.
The cover of The Death of Captain Marvel is very explicitly based on the Michelangelo work, as the comparison on the main trope page shows.
One of the most notorious examples is from the cover of one of the Teen Titans "Drug Awareness issues", with Speedy holding an unnamed child.
A Death in the Family, with Batman holding Jason Todd as Robin's body. This picture comes from the in-story moment where it happens.◊
In a Silver Age Batman comic "Robin Dies at Dawn", the Dark Knight cradles the body of Dick Grayson as Robin on the cover after the latter is killed distracting a monster. He's having a nightmare.
Captain Atom probably deserves mention for doing it twice, first on the cover of #8, with Plastique cradling a badly wounded Cap, with bonus points for Cap having a very visible wound in his side, and then inverting that image on the cover of issue #44, with Cap now cradling an unconscious Plastique. (Both are a more direct homage to the Pieta than most comics versions, including the seated posture and the draped legs.)
It's a fictional comic book, but the cover of issue 1◊ of Rage: Gay Crusader from the US version of Queer as Folk.
Dark Reign had one of these in a promo poster.
Witchblade #128's cover.
Issue 217 of Hellblazer literally copied the statue.
Two-Face holds a drugged and bleeding Batman like this in Batman: Jekyll and Hyde.
One of the earliest Star Trek: The Next Generation comics had Data cradling Geordi's dead body this way.
The Avengers: Red Zone Part 5 cover◊ features this with Iron Man holding a very dead Captain America. Note that Tony's angst is so great that even the armor is emoting.
The "Death of Captain America" plotline has Steve Rogers taking a bullet and collapsing outside the court, only for him to be cradled by Sharon Carter and a federal agent. (spoilers)◊.
Marjane in Persepolis recounts how she got into the Iranian art school; in the entrance exam, she drew a copy of Pietà, with Mary replaced by a veiled Iranian woman, and Jesus replaced by a martyr.
Spider-Man
Spider-Man holds Gwen Stacy in this way, in the last panel of The Night Gwen Stacy Died.
The Ultimate Universe has Mary Jane holding Peter like this in the final pages of The Death of Spider-Man saga.
For the Marvel reprints of ElfQuest, a new series of covers was made. Issue 24◊ also used this pose for Clearbrook and One-Eye.
A cover of Batman and Son has Batman do this to the Joker◊.
In All Fall Down, the Ghoul holds Portia this way after rescuing her.
Towards the end of Life with Archie: The Married Life, after Archie's Heroic Sacrifice for gay friend Kevin Keller, both Jughead and Kevin hold Archie's lifeless body in this way while the former cradles it in his lap as the entire crowd weeps and holds each other close.
A variant occurs in Tales of the Jedi with Ulic cradling the robes of Arca Jeth, who was a Jedi Master and became one with the Force upon death. It's also shown on the cover of that issue.
Vampirella: One of the covers for issue #7 (Dynamite Series) shows Sofia Murray in Mary's place and Vampirella herself in Jesus's place.
The finale to Civil War II ends with Miles Morales holding a defeated Tony Stark. This stands out as being one of the most blatant copies so far, with the characters in nearly 1-1 positioning as the original sculpture, including hand placement, etc., to the point that it verges on self-parody.
The Ultimates have Thor holding the corpse of Modi, his son.
Pieta Plagiarism / Live-Action Films
The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014). Peter Parker holding Gwen Stacy after she dies from her fall. That she is hanging from his web puts her body at just the right height for him to start holding her, and then he slowly lowers her to the ground.
In the Australian film Animal Kingdom, Pope carries Nicole out of the house like this.
In Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, this happens to Clark's body after he sacrifices himself to stop Doomsday. Batman retrieves the body and solemnly passes it down to Wonder Woman and Lois Lane. Lois then cradles Clark's body in her lap while Bruce and Diana flank them.
The first example of this in film is, predictably enough, The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, as Cesare kidnaps Jane
Used at the end of Casino Royale (2006) when Vesper dies and at the end of Skyfall when M dies.
Used intentionally in Children of Men, with a refugee mother holding her dead (or at least severely wounded) son. The commentary reveals this was a reference both to Michelangelo's sculpture and a real-life photograph.
Cries and Whispers: When a dying—actually, already dead, it's pretty weird—Agnes begs for comfort, Anna cradles her body in a classic Pieta pose.
The Dark Crystal, Jen holding Kira after she gets stabbed.
Johnny Depp does it in Dark Shadows. The twist is, they're both undead.
At the very end of Dogma, Silent Bob and Bethany mimic this, with Bethany playing the role of Christ. Don't worry, she's not dead. And God is right there to fix her up anyway.
In Don Juan DeMarco, the pose is enacted when John's father is fatally wounded in a sword duel, and dies in the arms of John's mother.
In Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Ferris cradles Cameron this way after rescuing him from the bottom of a swimming pool.
In Frankenstein (1931), when the father carries the lifeless body of his drowned daughter through the streets of the village.
In The Fugitive, Richard Kimble holds his dead (or dying) wife in his arms this way.
In Hannibal, the title character carries Clarice this way towards the end.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2, Severus Snape cradles Lily Potter's body after finding her dead.
The 2005 Bruce Willis film Hostage (based on the novel by Robert Crais) has a scene where Dennis holds the body of his brother Kevin before he is also killed. Other religious imagery appears in the film, with the character of Jennifer made to look like the Madonna more than once.
Used blatantly, and intentionally, in the Argentinian film Hombre Mirando al Sudeste (Man Looking Southeast), because one of its many, many possible interpretations is that the character Rantes is what he says he is, The Messiah (or rather, a messiah).
The Incredible Hulk carries Betty away from the battle on the college campus.
The shot of Sam cradling Frodo on the slopes of Mount Doom in The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.
In Mad Max: Fury Road, Immortan Joe is shown holding the dying body of Angharad, wheezing the raspy approximation of a Death Wail through his open mask, while Rictus angrily fires his BFG in the direction of the retreating War Rig.
Warboy on bike: Are you alright?
Immortan Joe: ON, ON!!
Parodied in Mr. Bean's Holiday - Bean attempts to earn some money by dancing to music from a CD stall, then the music switches to an opera piece, prompting Bean to stage his own improvised opera, with himself and his new friend in the roles of Mary and Jesus.
Scott cradles Mike◊ in My Own Private Idaho - more than once. However he's only sleeping. He suffers from narcolepsy and it's up to Scott to look after him, and yes, carry him about when he's asleep.
None Shall Escape: After Janina has been killed, her mother Marja carries her lifeless body to the church for the funeral service in this manner.
There is a scene in Pacific Rim where Raleigh helps lower Mako to the floor while cradling her.
Used blatantly and purposely in Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ, when the dead Christ is removed from the cross. Mary cradles him in Michaelangelo's pose while the camera slowly pulls away.
The live-action Martial Arts Movie The Protector ends with the hero and the lead villain falling through a skylight onto the mounted skeleton of the elephant he was supposed to be protecting from poachers; his body ends up cradled in the elephant's tusks.
The Jane Howell film of Richard III ends with a reversed Pietà pose: Margaret holding Richard's body with its head cradled in her left arm, laughing.
Subverted in Riddick. Riddick is wounded during a Back-to-Back Badasses fight with the scorpian-creatures. His companion (whom Riddick has predicted will cut and run on him) picks him up, apparently to carry him to safety...but then flips his body over to remove the power node from Riddick's back, leaving Riddick behind. He does return however for a Big Damn Gunship rescue, so he was apparently just being pragmatic.
In the 2002 American remake of The Ring, when Rachel finds Samara's corpse in the well, she cradles it like Madonna holds Jesus after the crucifixion.
In The Rise of Skywalker, Ben Solo holds Rey's dead body like this, before reviving her and dying himself.
The last shot of The Roaring Twenties (1939) leaves Eddie dead in Panama's arms after his Heroic Sacrifice.
In RoboCop 3, the titular character carries the dying Anne Lewis into a church in this fashion, and sets her down on the altar.
Used in Robot Monster, as immortalized on the poster◊.
Happens in The Rocky Horror Picture Show, with Rocky holding Frank-n-Furter. Considering the nature of the movie/play...
In Rollo and the Spirit of the Woods, Rolli holds Millie the Elf like this after the latter is crushed under a boulder.
In Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows, Sim does this to her brother after they collapsed from a poisoned dart.
Starman carrying Jenny away from an explosion. She gets better.
Scotty carrying his dead nephew Ensign Prescott onto the bridge in Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan
Happens in Strange Brew. Pam carries Bob this way after he faints when Brewmeister Smith threatens to kill them.
Parodied in the Strangers with Candy movie when Noblet attacks Jerri over the science fair and then collapses backward into the arms of the other students.
Superbad, when Seth carries a drunk Evan out of the party.
The film version of Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street has this. The twist is, they're both dead.
Parodied in Thank You for Smoking, when kidnappers leave an unconscious Nick in this pose in Abraham Lincoln's lap at the Lincoln Memorial.
In Thor: The Dark World, Thor cradles dying Loki in his arms after the latter is stabbed by Kurse. Being The Trickster, Loki fakes his death. Played for Laughs in Thor: Ragnarok, where Loki writes and commissions a stage play in which Asgardian actors reenact this scene from The Dark World In-Universe.
Used in Transformers: Dark of the Moon when Optimus holds Sentinel's body, which has been on the moon since The '60s and is locked in stasis due to lack of Energon.
Parodied at the end of Wayne's World when Wayne stumbles out of the burning house cradling the dead Garth and shouting "Why, God?! Why?!"
In We Were Soldiers, an American helicopter returns to base carrying dead and wounded from an intense ongoing battle during the early stages of The Vietnam War. A large black soldier picks up a dead white soldier and carries him away while weeping.
In The X-Files: I Want to Believe, Skinner holds a semi-conscious Mulder in his lap after rescuing him from nearly being killed by the movie's main villain.
Erik cradling a wounded Charles on the beach in X-Men: First Class.
Pieta Plagiarism / Live-Action TV
American Horror Story has this in Coven, with Cordelia holding Misty Day right before the latter crumbles into dust in her arms.
The Bible (2013): Appropriately enough, when Jesus is brought down from the cross, it's staged like the classic depiction.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Used at least once, after Drusilla is restored to health and Spike is injured, she holds him in this manner. Also used in "The Puppet Show", when Buffy cradles the Demon Slaying puppet after his death.
Also used when Tara dies, with Willow holding her.
Chinese Paladin: Used in the finale, with Xiaoyao Bridal Carrying Ling'er as she dies.
Dark Angel: In "Pollo Loco", Max holds her "brother" Ben in this manner after he asks her to kill him and she complies.
Doctor Who:
The scene in "Smith and Jones" where the Doctor carries Martha after she passes out from the lack of oxygen could be seen this way, especially since there was no particular reason she couldn't have stayed where she was besides drama.
The Doctor holds the Master in this way in "Last of the Time Lords". Somewhat ruined by his odd squatting pose on the floor, although that was only as narmy as the odd position of his legs while dramatically floating.
He did it again with Jenny in "The Doctor's Daughter", complete with that little hug-rocking motion. Once again, a secondary character shot the closest thing to family he had left out of almost nowhere; it was a bit of a callback. Given the way the Doctor tends to feel responsible when people die around him, this almost plays as Cradling Your Kill.
Used again in "Asylum of the Daleks", with the Doctor carrying Amy. This has been all over the promotional advertisements for the season.
A really striking one in The Teaser to "The Doctor Falls" with Cyber-Bill holding the Doctor's bloody body. The holder is standing in this instance, though.
Hercules: The Legendary Journeys: Done a few times, usually whenever Iolaus dies. (Yes, it happened more than once.) In a commentary, Michael Hurst got his Michelangelo sculptures mixed up and compared it to David.
Heroes: Used this twice in season 3 in paintings of the future. One of Matt holding a burned Daphne in a possible-future where Sylar goes nuclear and Noah holding an injured Claire, foreshadowing the eclipse during which the powered people lose their abilities.
House: One episode had Cuddy holding a young patient who she'd been granted temporary guardianship of this way in a shower to cool her down due to a fever. Then House came in and sniped at Cuddy about her aspirations of motherhood....
Kamen Rider Zi-O: In episode 22, Tsukuyomi holds Geiz in this pose after he kills himself with a Time Burst against Another Ryuga. White Woz shouting "My savior!" drives it home double.
Merlin (2008): The last episode of the first season plays it straight with Uther holding Arthur. It's ok though, he gets better. Also in the season four trailer, Percival was seen carrying an unconscious Merlin in his arms.
The O.C.: Used in, of all places, the first season, with Ryan and Marissa, who had just taken a painkiller overdose washed down with a lot of alcohol in Tijuana. And in a deliberate parallel to the same scene, he carries her the same way in the Season 3 finale, "The Graduates", following a car accident. She's suffered head trauma and he has to carry her away from the burning car. She dies in his arms, and the final shot is him huddled over her body.
Power Rangers in Space: Andros holds the body of Karone after Zordon's Heroic Sacrifice to stop the attack on the world. She is revived by Andros' love for her.
Revolution: In the first season finale, Miles Matheson is holding Nora Clayton in his arms in exactly this way when she died. He even went down onto his knees when he realized that she died.
Seinfeld: Jerry has a bad dream where he ends up in this pose after getting illegal cable and the Cable Police gun him down. Kramer cradles him crying "What have you done to my little CABLE BOY???"
Smallville:
Clark Kent does it all the time, but most powerfully with Alicia's death. Lana back in X-Ray. Chloe in Dichotic, and the time in Arrival may count. Also Chloe in Abyss.
The Season 7 finale had Lex Luthor cradling (Weakened? Paralyzed? Don't really know.) Clark Kent in a similar fashion as the Fortress of Solitude crumbled around them. It's further enforced by the former repeatedly apologizing to him and apparently seeing this event of killing his former-best friend as a great personal sacrifice.
Supergirl: Supergirl holds Lena Luthor in the pose after catching her in season two.
Star Trek: The Next Generation: Worf carrying Data during the episode "Brothers". Data was only deactivated at the time, though.
The Tick (2016): When Superman Substitute Superian is feeling unappreciated by humanity, he uses his eye beams to carve Devil's Tower into a sculpture of himself holding a limp human figure, in an effort to remind humans of all he's done for them.
Upright Citizens Brigade: Spoofed in one episode in the Camp Kalterman sketch.
Veronica Mars: Began and ended its second season with the Pietà; in the first case, Veronica tends to Logan, and in the second, it's reversed.
The Walking Dead: In the mid-season 5 finale Daryl carries Beth's body out of the hospital after she is shot
Pieta Plagiarism / Video Games
A pretty clever example occurs in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood. In one particular story mission, you are tasked with preventing someone's assassination in the middle of a play, where said person is playing Jesus. Let's just say things take a turn for the bad, so they cut him off the cross, and Ezio picks him up and carries him off. Perfect Pieta pose included.
When Shin Megami Tensei II was remade for the Playstation, its original poster featured the protagonist being held by the angel Gabriel in this position.◊
In the fifth case of the first Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney game, Lana Skye holds her unconscious younger sister Ema in this manner after Ema is attacked by a serial killer.
Kefka of Final Fantasy VI mimics this as one of his final forms, with the "Rest" part of the Statue of the Gods replacing Christ.
Notably, in the Japanese version, the female torso and head floating behind Kefka was named "Maria", as in "Mary", as opposed to the western translations in which she was named "Girl" or "Lady" depending on the console version. (Quite obviously to avoid pushing any berserk buttons, although Lady could very well be taken from Madonna note , an appellation for the Virgin Mary.)
Quite notably, in the Nintendo Switch and Patch 1.2 versions of Cuphead, during the third phase of Sally Stageplay's battle, the cardboard cutout of her husband (which you've squished via the Falling Chandelier of Doom earlier in her first phase) fights alongside her cardboard cutout, parodying the Pieta part by striking a pose similar to that of the "Rest" part of the Statue of the Gods in Final Fantasy VI. Take a look.
Tellah of Final Fantasy IV takes both sides of this trope in the DS remake, holding his daughter Anna as she's just been shot full of Baronian arrows, and then being picked up by Cid after sacrificing his own life to power his uber-doom Meteor spell against Golbez.
The standing Pietà could be found on the box art of Shadow Hearts with Yuri carrying Alice. The sequel Shadow Hearts: From the New World mimics this with Johnny and Shania, except that Johnny is not strong enough to lift Shania. The art effectively looks more like the picture above (Lamentation) as Johnny is kneeling. Ruined as Shania's neck is straight up; she is clearly supporting it herself.
You can see the sculpture itself in Apoina Tower in Covenant.
Mega Man X4, during the infamous "WHAT AM I FIGHTING FOOOOOOOOOOR" scene, where Zero carries the dead Iris.
In Mega Man Maverick Hunter X, X is seen doing this to a dying Zero.
Another one in X8, with X carrying a comatose Axl before and during their journey back to Earth.
And again in Mega Man Zero, where Zero saves a falling Ciel this way.
Done twice in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. Link holds Colin in this manner after rescuing him from abduction by the Bulblins. Later, when Midna uses the power of the Fused Shadow for the first time and it renders her unconscious, she likewise is held in Link's arms until she wakes.
An interesting variation from Final Fantasy VIII: Rinoa does this with Squall after she finds him unconscious in the desert after Time Compression, but it's mostly shown from the back - most likely to highlight the wings on the back of her outfit.
Also averted in Final Fantasy VIII. Squall carries the unconscious Rinoa piggyback style.
A statue in Chorrol in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion resembles this.
Snake holding Big Mama in Metal Gear Solid 4 is an interesting twist, because all the Faux Symbolism up until that point was that Snake was the self-sacrificial, messianic one and Mama was his mother (she even blatantly described Snake's birth as an 'immaculate conception').
in the .hack series, Kite holds the dying Mia in this manner.
In G.U., Haseo does this when Alkaid is PKed.
...And now someone's gone and made a Real Life statue of Peach holding Mario in that pose. From styrofoam. It's titled "Game Over".
In Dragon Age II Hawke does this with his/her mother when he/she is too late to save their mother from an insane blood mage who sought to 'reassemble' his late wife.
Later in Act 2, Viscount Dumar does this with his son Seamus after the latter is murdered by Petrice in her attempt to incite war with the Qunari.
In Fable III, The Hero does this as Walter dies in his/her arms after the final battle.
In Batman: Arkham City, done by Batman during the ending after The Joker dies from TITAN poisoning.
Made somewhat hilarious by the fact that he seems to have left Talia lying in a pool of her own blood without a second thought.note 
This also helps serve as Book-Ends to the first image we see in the Catwoman opening - Cain doing the exact same pose with Abel.
In the "Season of Infamy" DLC in Batman: Arkham Knight: if you destroy the Lazarus machine, Batman will carry Ra's out in this manner as well. Unlike the Joker, Ra's isn't dead yet, but he will be soon enough.
Despite being the furthest thing from a messiah imaginable, Alex Mercer in [PROTOTYPE] cradles his sister Dana's unconscious body this way when he rescues her from a kidnapping, before he lifts her effortlessly and tears out of the building to find medical care.
In Halo: Reach, Carter carries Kat's body this way after she is Killed Mid-Sentence by an Elite sniper.
In The King of Fighters 2003, Kyo Kusanagi is seen holding an exhausted and wounded Chizuru Kagura like this after Ash Crimson attacks her and steals her Magic Mirror via pulling it out of her body.
In KOF 99, Kensou carries an unconscious Athena after he activates the Dragon Spirit to save both of them. He does this again in KOF 2000, but with a badly injured Bao when he takes a blast of a Kill Sat.
In Tales of the Abyss Luke does this for Asch in one of the last scenes of the game. Considering Luke is his clone, the symbolism can get a little weird.
The cover◊ art◊ for DoDonPachi Daioujou and DoDonPachi Saidaioujou.
Final Fantasy XIII-2: Noel holds Serah in this manner after she succumbs to her seeress powers. Yeul is also seen being held by both Noel and Caius during her many many death scenes in this way.
In Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones, when the Prince in his Dark Prince form sees his father Sharaman dead after obtaining his sword, he crumples to the floor in his "My God, What Have I Done?" moment and holds his father in this manner, all the while the Dark Prince's voice taunts him on how to save Sharaman's life.
At the end of Pitfall: The Lost Expedition, Harry tries lifting Nicole's body in this manner in his attempt to revive her before setting her down and realizing that he has lost his magical powers the butterfly had given him... or so he thinks. In his Heroic BSoD, he lifts her up again in this manner, thinking he has failed her, before giving her the Magic Kiss of Life, bringing her back to life again.
The cover art for MS Saga: A New Dawn.
In Spec Ops: The Line when you discover the damages done by phosphorus on the civilians, a dead woman is holding her dead burnt daughter, immobilized in a sitting position
In Guardians of the Galaxy: The Telltale Series, depending on your earlier choice, either Drax or Gamora will hold Peter like this after the latter was injured by Hala the Accuser.
The cover art of NieR: Automata features 2B holding 9S in this manner. she also holds him in a similar manner after the boss fight in the copied city.
After the second boss fight eve holds his brother Adam in this fashion.
In Fate/Grand Order:
The "Da Vinci and The 7 Counterfeit Heroic Spirits" has a Craft Essence called Empieta, depicting Jeanne d'Arc Alter holding Gilles de Rais as a direct reference to the statue.
Thomas Edison does this pose with the American Flag. No seriously, it's his final artwork◊ in the game.
In God of War (PS4):
Kratos carries Atreus in this matter after Atreus had fallen ill and was near death.
There was Freya carrying their son Baldur after Kratos was forced to kill the latter.
In Blasphemous the boss Ten Piedad is first seen resting in the arms of a feminine statue in this pose. When it wakes up, it desecrates the statue by ripping its head off and throwing it at you.
Advertising 
Kookai used it (here◊ and here◊), to express a "love at first sight post catatonia."
Appears in one of the Compare the Meerkat adverts.
Taxi Vancouver had David Billings build a sand Pietà, depicting a mother grieving her dead daughter, to raise awareness of drowning and drowning prevention.
    Arts 
The Pietà was already a long-established representation of the sorrowful Virgin Mary by the time Michelangelo started work on his first one. It first arose in Germany, where the form is known as Vesperbild ("vespers image", because it portrays a moment after the crucifixion, around the time of evening prayers on Good Friday), and spread to Italy from there. The oldest surviving Pietàs date back to the early 1300s, over 150 years before Michelangelo was born.
Some ancient sculptures and paintings depicting scenes from pre-Christian mythology also have Pietà-like configuration, e. g. Niobe holding the body of one of her children, Eos (Dawn) with that of her son Memnon etc.
The painting depicting Ivan the Terrible holding his son after mortally wounding him has him cradling him in this pose.
While it lacks the Mary figure, David's Death of Marat has the subject mimicking Jesus' pose. Interestingly, that portrait supposedly was taken from life, er death.
An even closer version is this image of the death of Joseph Smith◊, founder of the Mormon Church, from 1851.
    Fan Works 
In With Strings Attached, immediately after the Heart of Evil has been destroyed, the Hunter comes walking through a curtain of rain carrying Paul's naked body (though he isn't dead, and he didn't perform a Heroic Sacrifice; he got drained by wraiths that he overconfidently attacked).
In A Captive Light a Digimon fanfiction, Kari cradles TK's body after Ken's monsters attack, with the intent of actually killing his hostage. The holding and sobbing last for a good chapter and a half, and reduced more than one reviewer to tears.
HERZ: Shinji held Gendo in this position as his father died in chapter 10.
In chapter 11 of Last Child of Krypton, Shinji sees a vision of another Shinji holding another Asuka this way. The narration notes that they looked like “some Renaissance statue”.
The other had sunk to the ground, holding the broken body of Asuka in her plugsuit, like some renaissance statue.
Neon Genesis Evangelion: Genocide: When Asuka is dying, Shinji carries her this way. Since both teenagers are inside their Humongous Mecha at the time when it happens, Unit-01 cradles the broken, motionless body of Unit-02.
In Prison Island Break, Sonic does this when Manic dies, right outside the prison chapel. It may be written, but the imagery brings reviewers to tears.
A fan-art for My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic specifically recreates the Crisis on Infinite Earths #7 cover with pony characters. Note that, given the little "Z" bubble, Twilight might just be sleeping.
In Time Fixers: Nicktoons of the Future, Danny carries his son, Darry, this way after the latter uses his Ghost Rage technique to defeat Dan Phantom and uses up all his energy, nearly dying as a result.
In When The Moon Fell In Love With The Sun, Peeta holds Larkspur's body in his arms while she's dying.
It happens in Hellsister Trilogy when Dev-Em carries an unconscious and gravely wounded Supergirl in his arms after her climatic battle with her evil duplicate.
He peered at the battered Supergirl, held in the grieving Dev-Em's arms.
Memories Born of Fire: In Spock's nightmare, Christine Chapel holds him after he commits suicide.
A fanart has Ezio Auditore from Assassin's Creed II holding a dead Leonardo da Vinci.
In The Heart The Soul, Shinji holds an unconscious Asuka in this fashion when she passes out after enduring Arael's mind rape.
    Films — Animation 
Nearing the end of The Nightmare Before Christmas, Jack lies defeated in the arms of a graveyard statue of an angel.
Meg's death in Hercules. And it's not just Hercules cradling her in his arms as a powered mortal, but he also holds her spirit once he is restored to godhood as well.
In Tangled, Rapunzel is holding Eugene/Flynn after the latter's Heroic Sacrifice.
At the very beginning of The Hunchback of Notre Dame, the Archdeacon does this to Quasimodo's mother after she has been trampled to death by Frollo for being a gypsy and after the Archdeacon stops Frollo from drowning baby Quasimodo by dropping him into a well because of his hideous appearance.
Near the end of the film, Quasimodo holds Esmeralda over his head in a Crucified Hero Shot after saving her from being burned at the stake and claiming sanctuary in the Cathedral, and soon afterward evokes the Pietá trope as he privately cradles and sobs over her body. She revives.
In Lilo & Stitch 2: Stitch Has a Glitch, where Stitch has died, Lilo holds him in this fashion. It's okay though, he gets better.
    Literature 
In Justina Robson's Living Next Door to the God of Love, the Stuffies' Cathedral has a stained-glass window showing Francine with a "sexy dark chick" in her lap: it's Cadenza Fortitude, the titular God's female version.
The grown son in Robert Munsch's "Love You Forever" cradles his ailing mother in this pose, similar to how she cradled him to sleep as a child and as a grown man.
The Executioner. On the cover of "Day of Mourning" in which Mack Bolan's long-term Love Interest April Rose is killed, Bolan is shown cradling the latter's dead body. And it's raining.
In The Tomorrow Series Corrie is seen this way in Kevin's lap after she has been shot. It is even lampshaded when Ellie says she walks into what looks like Jesus's barn.
The Lord of the Rings: When Faramir is wounded, the Prince of Dol Amroth brings him back to Minas Tirith holding him in his arms on the back of his horse.
Narrowly averted in The Goblin Emperor. When Beshelar throws himself in front of his emperor to protect him from a blade, he ends up wounded and bleeding in the emperor's lap. The wound is not lethal and before the emperor can start to cradle him or something, he gets up and apologizes.
    Music 
The cover art◊ for Electronic Saviors: Volume 2 features a dying male cyborg in a Pieta pose with a female cyborg. The female cyborg is wearing a long cowl, evoking the image of the Virgin Mary.
    Tabletop Games 
A picture on the page explaining the rules for Resonance (that's the accumulation of the wrath of the undead creators of the world to you and me...) in the Exalted 2nd ed Abyssals book. Something of an inversion, however — the character doing the cradling is presumably an Abyssal, and has probably just invited the anger of the Neverborn by attempting to do some good in the world — renegade Abyssals can quite easily hit Messianic status, Dark or otherwise.
    Theatre 
The script of the play for Little Shop of Horrors mentions Pieta a few times when discussing how to act Audrey's death and subsequent feeding to the plant.
William Shakespeare example: King Lear carrying Cordelia's body at the end of the play. Well, near the end.
The very last pose in Elisabeth. See that show's trope page for an illustration.
Miss Saigon: Kim holds her cousin Thuy this way after she shoots him (she was protecting her son from him), and is held this way by Chris after she shoots herself in the end.
In Matilda's third B-story segment, the Escapologist carries the Acrobat pieta-style after her fatal fall during the "Burning Woman" stunt.
In Les Misérables, the image of Marius cradling Eponine's body at the end of the song "A Little Fall of Rain" evokes this trope. Certain stagings also have Valjean carry Marius from the barricades this way, although Marius is still alive.
This photo◊ from a 1918 Metropolitan Opera production of Verdi's La Forza del Destino shows Don Alvaro holding the dying Leonora in his arms.
    Visual Novels 
In Umineko: When They Cry's PS3 remake, Battler is holding Beatrice like this on the cover.
Happens twice in the third case of Dai Gyakuten Saiban. The first time, John Garrideb dramatically falls over, as his wife Joan catches him in this pose. After it's revealed that Joan was the one who (accidentally) committed the assault, she's the one to fall with John catching him; however, Joan is a lot heavier than John, and he collapses after holding the pose for a few seconds.
    Web Animation 
Volume 2 of RWBY had Ruby and Weiss in this position for the teaser trailer, as a pillar collapses behind them. Fans worried about what this meant, but as it turns out, Rooster Teeth were just hamming it up for the promo. The real reason is much sillier: a Food Fight.
Done again in episode 19 of RWBY Chibi after an pillow fight done to the same extreme but instead it is Yang holding Ruby who pretends to die.
    Webcomics 
In Blue Yonder, Jared is carried in like that after the injuries he suffered.
Pastiched by Dasien and Mindmistress on this cover in The Crossoverlord.
Daughter of the Lilies: Used in the confrontation between Prof. Fike and Master Wu, as Fike clutches an illusion of his late son in the depths of the Drath hell.
Dominic Deegan shows this trope during a flashback to the slaughter of a group of students by a sadistic Infernomancer.
El Goonish Shive. Grace is shown doing it in this comic, right after knocking the guy out with a sleeper hold.
Parson pulls one of these in Erfworld.
Occurs near the end of the first volume of fantasy comic Garanos.
In one of two pages being added to the second printing of Girl Genius Volume 6 to fix a layout issue, Agatha tends to a freshly dead Lars.
Done with the accidentally slaughtered Raccoon #1 in The Intrepid Girlbot.
Homestuck:
It manages to pull it off both seriously and mockingly at the same time thanks to Sburb's kiss-revival system.
Played straight in [S] Cascade with PM and WV
Seen in Juathuur here, with inverted genders.
Karate Bears need a mop.
Katamari uses this at the end of one of the arcs, when Lucha brings a seriously injured Opeo back from the wrestling tournament.
Kevin & Kell, normally a very gag-based comic, had one here, following the death of Danielle.
In the foreground of this Roommates page the Goblin Regent is holding the fallen (Death is already there for him) kid hero like this. Also his face and the thing in the background clearly shows that the guy reached the Godzilla Threshold.
In Shortpacked!, it's used for unconscious characters, considering how Death wasn't so cheap there.
Star Mares has a shot of Dark Feather standing over a broken and defeated Skywalker which is reminiscent of the pose.
Rumble Bee of Super Stupor strikes this pose with her mentor when he ceases to exist during the Cataclysm in this strip.
Unsounded: Though the shot is from behind, the end of this strip has Murkoph in a very Pieta-like pose as he holds the flayed skin of his torso. This is quite a juxtaposition, as Murkoph is a highly depraved and sacrilegious character.
In Weak Hero, after gaining his Heroic Second Wind and beating down Wolf, Gray succumbs to his injuries and collapses. Ben catches him before he falls, cradling him in the pietà position. Then he picks him up and carries him away in the same manner◊ with the sun setting behind them.
Weapon Brown: ME GOYLE!!
Jethro, "the retarded kid" from You Damn Kid! built one out of snow... before promptly clotheslining it.
    Web Original 
Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog has one heralding its finale in Act III: Billy carries the lifeless body of Penny to a stretcher as he sings "Everything You Ever" and makes his final transformation to Dr. Horrible.
Invoked at the end of Brad Neely's ''China, IL.''
Linkara does this with MarzGurl in Kickassia when she's knocked down by an explosion. Played for Laughs, since the entire time he's doing it, she's protesting that she's fine.
Chaos Fighters: Chemical Warriors-RAKSA has this near the end, but subverted that the one being hugged was alive and woke up.
    Western Animation 
Bojack Horseman In Season 4 ,Episode 6, "Stupid Piece of Shit," we see Bojack holding Sarah Lynn in this pose during his "Stupid Piece of Shit" flashback.
Justice League:
Superman does this to Captain Atom after Superman is forced to beat him unconscious in Flashpoint.
Green Lantern does this to Supergirl in Far From Home.
Batman does this with Ace in Epilogue.
Avatar: The Last Airbender: A scene from the second season finale is one example that doesn't follow a Heroic Sacrifice, but a poorly timed mistake.
Ben 10: Alien Force actually has a shot like this in "What Little Girls Are Made Of", with Kevin holding Ben after he is knocked down in a (brief) conflict with a woman who turns out to be his grandmother. The scene is not dramatic and Ben isn't even unconsious, but he stays in Kevin's arms like that for a good five seconds.
Superjail!: When the Littlest Cancer Patient dies, one of the prisoners holds her like this.
Transformers Animated, Endgame Part 2: Jazz carries Prowl's body after the third Lugnut Supreme blows up.
Spoofed in the Dexter's Laboratory accompanying short, The Justice Friends, in which Major Glory holds Valhallen in his arms after Valhallen injures himself in an attempt to get a bee out of their apartment. When Valhallen states that he is fine, Major Glory casually tosses him aside.
The end of the Looney Tunes cartoon "What's Opera Doc?"
The Simpsons: The famous "Death of Superman" comic is parodied with Sad Sack.
Season 17's "Marge And Homer Turn A Couple Play" features the eponymous couple helping a major league baseball player and his wife patch up their troubled marriage. During Kent Brockman's news report, a file photo is shown depicting a distressed Marge holding a drunken, drooling, beer-hat wearing Homer in the famous position.
The aforementioned scene of A Death in the Family is recreated in one of the DCAU Original Movies. More exactly, Batman: Under the Red Hood, where Batman *again* carries the deceased Jason Todd◊.
Teen Titans: Robin and Raven, in the episode 'Birthmark,' have this twice - first with Raven holding Robin, then Robin holding Raven.
Recess: In the episode "Prince Randall," Mikey combines this trope with a Skyward Big "NO!" as he holds the unconscious T.J. after the latter is clobbered at the dodgeball wall.
In The Tick, episode "The Tick vs. The Proto-Clown", the American Maid and her on-off-S.O. Die Fledermaus remain behind fighting the Monster of the Week. She later returns to the HQ holding his body in her arms in a classical standing Pietà pose, like this (Sorry, side screenshot). By the way: He had just fainted.
In the Oh Yeah! Cartoons short "The Feelers", this pose is done by having Mo Skito carry Mitzi Moth in his arms during her Disney Death.
In the Harley Quinn (2019) episode "Runaway Bridesmaid", Poison Ivy and Kite Man's wedding is raided by the police. When Ivy passes out from knock-out gas, Kite Man carries her body and screams in anguish, parodying Crisis on Infinite Earths #7, until he too succumbs to the gas.
    Other 
Anakin Skywalker and his dead mother Shmi appear in this pose in a Star Wars Legends trading card, with her as a Force Ghost holding his charred, dying body after his defeat at Obi-Wan's hands on Mustafar.
    Real Life 
Mortally wounded Pres. Lincoln and actress Laura Keene, Ford's Theatre, Washigton, D.C., April 14, 1865.note 
Mortally wounded Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and busboy Juan Romero. Ambassador Hotel, Los Angeles, California, June 5, 1968.
World Press Photo picture of the year, 2011.
Played to chilling effect with a woman hugging her partner who was shot and killed by unidentified gunmen for being an alleged drug pusher. Front page banner of the Philippine Daily Inquirer, Pasay City, Philippines, published July 24, 2016.

Commercial Pop-Up
A trend of a commercial blurb in the form of a "pop-up" style graphic (audio optional) during a show. Commonly called "snipes" by broadcasters, these ads are typically not for products, but for the network's programming. They are not to be confused with logos used to identify a channel — which are usually called "bugs". However, snipes are often designed to interact with bugs (often triggering animations or other effects to it when a snipe appears).
Often, they advertise what show is on next or later that day on the same channel. Sometimes, it can be a commercial popup indicating what show you are watching and what network you are watching it on. Occasionally the broadcaster will even go so far as to put a logo or text near the bug or in a different corner of the screen, to remind people that it is in fact a NEW EPISODE!!◊ and not some ancient old one, or put up an #EngineeredHashtag telling people that they can talk about the show on social media with it. The stations justify this because some people DVR and record shows—this is also how the networks can remind people who are watching a pirated program where the program originated from, and ensure pirates at least buy the DVD to pirate from.
A similar trend is to start airing commercials during the credits of a show or movie by smashing the credits to one side of the screen and showing promos on the other. The credits are usually sped up and muted in favor of the shocking revelation coming on later tonight. You can bet that if you see or hear "stay tuned for scenes from next week's show" at the end of the episode before the commercial it'll be this.
Beyond just reclaiming some of the valuable advertising time they had previously wasted on actual show, these popups serve several other purposes linked to the rise of digital video recorders:
They can not be easily skipped like normal commercials (their first appearances were around 2001-2002, coinciding with the rise of the DVR)
They make DVD releases more desirable than off-air recordings. (However, there are many DVD releases that show a persistent studio logo in the bottom corner of the screen.)
They "brand" the video feed, making bootleg/YouTube'd copies easier to identify.
If the pop-up is a countdown to something the network considers high priority, then it's a New Content Countdown Clock.
Commercial Pop Up / Nickelodeon
When it comes to American TV networks, Nickelodeon is the Trope Codifier in regards to this trope. They use commercial pop-ups so frequently that it's surprising to see them not do this to promote new episodes of their programming. They've often taken it Up to Eleven and interrupted programs for the same reason.

During the U-Pick era, the main image of the show currently on would be squeezed to remind viewers that voting for the next program had begun.
To plug Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius, Nickelodeon had these with Jimmy coming up and doing a short as one of these bugs. They diverted the attention from the show to Jimmy doing experiments anywhere on the screen at any time. He did stuff like modifying the original bug at first, but it grew more clever. During an episode of SpongeBob SquarePants, Jimmy came in, hit a button, and for several seconds the episode turned into a puppet show version of itself.
There were also bugs where they replaced large segments of the show with a bunch of random clips from all of their other shows. However, unlike the puppets, it replaced an actual part of the episode, and often times, the punchline of the show's best joke.
Nick actually did a whole marathon where the Rugrats would randomly run through parts of the show, too. The bugs actually ran by as part of a contest: Name what show, episode, and scene the baby ran by in, send it to Nick, and you'd be in the runnings for a treehouse.
When Nick Jr. first added a permanent logo to the corner of the screen, it wasn't exactly transparent, sometimes covering details in a scene. An early airing of Dora the Explorer containing a scene in which the titular character counts five objects had the fifth one obscured by the Nick Jr. logo.
This happened during the UK Nicktoons airings of Avatar: The Last Airbender. The bug that was the most noticeable was a pole-vaulting brain-thing which happily runs across the entire screen, usually during a climactic scene, but their habit to smush the credits to start showing trailers goes wrong during the longer-running season finales.
When Tak and the Power of Juju and Back at the Barnyard were originally premiering, Nick would promote the show by either having a giant splat of milk suddenly appear on-screen, or having Tak appear and summon a giant yellow tornado, thus scaring the crap out of viewers watching the network. They later did much subtler promotions for shows, such as having a character from The Thundermans freezing the Nick channel bug, then moments later have it thaw.
In the first airing of the The Legend of Korra episode "And the Winner Is...", a bug of SpongeBob laughing shows up just as Korra is shown falling, making it look like he was laughing at her misery. It's even become a meme where SpongeBob laughs at other sad moments in movies and TV shows.
Nickelodeon's Nick Studio 10 block was a rather infamous instance of this trope. During repeats of SpongeBob and The Fairly OddParents reruns were interrupted with random "comedic" videos for the first couple weeks and a mocking voice stating that "Nick Did It!", often at the funniest point in the episode (for instance, the Leif Erikson Day gag in the SpongeBob episode "Bubble Buddy"). Even though it only affected reruns that most viewers had seen hundreds of times before, they weren't happy to see a network messing with programming they paid for, and Nick quickly did away with the intrusions (and eventually the block).
When Sanjay and Craig premiered, Nick had a promo cut in immediately after the show's intro ended.
As of 2018, Nickelodeon now airs commercials and promos right after a show's intro ended.
An ad for the Nickelodeon phone app sometimes would (translucently) cover the entire screen during some shows.
Beginning in June of 2019, Nickelodeon would have a distracting graphic cover the last few seconds of the show to promote other programs. For example, during the premiere of The Loud House episode "Roll Model", an animated wrecking ball smashed through the screen and cut into a promo for All That.
Over Christmas Eve 2019, Nickelodeon and its sister channels were airing a popup that crunches the show you're watching to half of the screen inside a snowglobe, which lasts the whole show. Like the Nick Studio 10 popups, viewers complained over social media and it ended after the 1PM hour.
On January 2, 2020, a SpongeBob marathon was run that had trivia panels transparenly covering half of the screen.
During a repeat of The Loud House episode "Absent-Minded; Be Stella My Heart", the screen glitched at the part in the theme song where Lily walks across the screen and cut to a promo for the final episodes of Henry Danger.
Nickelodeon did this to promote the Henry Danger Spin-Off Danger Force. Not only was there a square advertising the show in the bottom left corner, but sometimes a banner will appear and cover the bottom of the screen. Sometimes, this ad is transparent. And in the absolute worse case scenario, episodes were randomly cut before they ended to air an ad for Danger Force.
On Saint Patrick's Day 2020, due to many schools in the United States closing due to the coronavirus pandemic, Nick ended their preschool block at 10AM EST. At the bottom of programs from that time onward, a banner telling viewers what was on Nickelodeon and the Nick Jr. subchannel was put on the bottom left of the screen.
On June 2, 2020, to promote the Blue's Clues & You! episode "Colors Everywhere With Blue", Blue would randomly appear on screen during Nickelodeon's preschool block that morning.
During an airing of one of the Despicable Me movies, an Animal Cam was placed in the bottom left of the screen as the movie was running to promote Unleashed.
Nick-At-Nite, their late-night block, often puts gigantic rectangular advertisements for whatever's coming up next that block the bottom third of the screen.
  Anime 
Like with both Avatar and Korra mentioned in the Western Animation folder, Cartoon Network did this with the Pokémon episode "Crossing Paths", where Jessie releases Dustox. What ruined the moment? A bumper for the new episode of Ben 10: Alien Force.
Numerous times during Cartoon Network airings of Yu-Gi-Oh! GX, a promo would appear on the lower part of the screen, sometimes obscuring the Life Points total.
     Film 
The Beauty and the Beast Diamond Edition and Alice in Wonderland 60th Anniversary Edition Blu-ray Discs advertise new bonus features during the end credits.
During a showing of The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) on AMC, an ad filled the entire bottom of the screen for a western mini-series, accompanied by loud horse noises. Rather annoying, to say the least.
When TBS offered the 2009 remake of The Taking of Pelham One Two Three to watch On Demand - they had their Commercial Pop-Up saying "TBS Very Funny" all through a movie that includes blood spatters, seven on-screen deaths and terrified hostages.
During the Freeform premiere of Inside Out, an ad for a showing of Home Alone that followed the former film appeared on screen just as Bing Bong faded away.
During the 2018 edition of their Toy Story marathon, pop-up trivia facts appeared during random points in the movies. One of them, which was a Take That! at Shadowhunters, outraged fans of the show since it appeared during a scene where the Magic 8 Ball tells Woody "DON'T COUNT ON IT".
During the December 16, 2018 airing of the Hallmark Channel original movie Entertaining Christmas, a banner covered the lower quarter of the screen advertising a Countdown to Christmas Fantasy Game for 15 seconds.
     Literature 
A rare Literature example is the German publisher Heyne, which included a soup advert in the middle of the text of Terry Pratchett's Pyramids (see here for details).
     Live-Action TV 
Ads for the TBS original comedy The Bill Engvall Show have stumbled upon a way to intrude even more: Bill Engvall himself pops up and pauses the show you're watching to talk about his show. This is an especially egregious example because it defeats the entire purpose of using pop-ups as opposed to actual commercials, as it basically creates an incredibly short commercial break at a random moment of the show. Even more hilariously, the commercial begins with Engvall telling you how cool it is that he can pause the show you are watching.
The Australian sketch comedy show Comedy Inc. parodied this with a sketch featuring a CSI: Miami parody where increasingly bigger fake pop-ups for the channel kept covering crucial items (first a seemingly critical piece of evidence, then a stripping character's nudity), at one point covering half the screen. At this point Horatio gets on his cell phone and tells someone to arrest someone at Channel 9 for the number of ads.
The BBC do these with small bars at the bottom or the top of the screen for the next show. Normally doesn't happen on BBC One, but once did during the climax of a Doctor Who episode, for the following Lloyd-Webber/Graham Norton reality star search and included an animated version of Norton. This led to official complaints from over five and a half thousand viewers (including Charlie Brooker and Simon Pegg), so much so that "Doctor Who" and "Graham Norton" actually became trending topics on Twitter because of it. As seen in the page quote, Norton did indulge in some Self-Deprecation over the incident on his show, culminating in another animated version of him popping up and being promptly exterminated by a Dalek.
The show Flavor of Love: Charm School had an ad for Celebrity Fit Club pop up. It takes up the entire screen, save for the TV rating bug.
When Law & Order: Criminal Intent moved to USA Network, a gag ad was created where Goren wanted to know what the hell the USA bug in the corner of the screen was. He then tried unsuccessfully to interact with it before declaring it "weird".
When LazyTown aired on CBeebies, an ad usually popped up that had a yellow blob "thinking" of whatever show was coming up next, covering half the screen during the Once per Episode song and staying there for about 15 seconds.
Mystery Science Theater 3000:
During the Sci-Fi Channel run, a pop-up of the Sci-Fi Channel logo would appear in the bottom-right corner of the screen, often obscuring Crow T. Robot during the theater scenes. This was so annoying that viewers successfully petitioned Sci-Fi to move their logo to the other side of the screen.
Earlier than that, MST3K fans had the same demand with Comedy Central during its run on that channel. They also managed, while the show aired on that network to stop text crawls across the bottom of the screen, and got them to stop running voice-overs during the show's credits because gags would frequently be carried over and played on top of them.
During an episode hosted by Will Farrell, Saturday Night Live did a skit where Kenan Thompson and Bill Hader played TNT's playcallers for the NBA, Charles Barkley and Marv Albert. While they're trying to talk about the game, a Commercial Pop-Up appears for a new TNT show, which they notice and start talking about. When it vanishes, they go back to talking about the game, but then it pops up again, with Barkley getting really excited by the hijinks that take place in the pop up. This repeats throughout the skit, much of Marv Albert's chagrin.
A VH-1 advertisement for Scream Queens (2008) manifests itself as a high-pitched scream during an otherwise quiet moment in a show.
An episode of Scrubs had a parody on one of these, after JD thinks of a silly sitcom about the Janitor and Ted adopting a kid, called "Legal Custodians." The next time JD brings it up, a Bug for it appears at the bottom of the screen.
The first episode of Season 8 has an example of this using the network logo. Scrubs had switched from NBC to ABC between seasons 7 and 8. In the opening of the episode, JD walks in, points very obviously at the ABC logo and says "That's new!" The camera then pans to the Janitor to show he has a new watch.
The premiere of the Sesame Street special The Cookie Thief in early 2015 pulled a similar trick. Three times during the course of the premiere, a bug of Cookie Monster would pop up followed by a text box similar to the ones described in the Odd Squad example above, reminding viewers that, yes, they were watching The Cookie Thief. Viewers Are Morons indeed. Hilariously, it first popped up during a scene that Cookie Monster was in, which may have momentarily confused the show's young viewers.
During the Cartoon Network premiere of the Elmo's Playdate special, Big Bird's face was obscured by the Cartoon Network bug.
Sci-Fi Channel had a bug for their "Trek 2.0" version of Star Trek: The Original Series, which included the Star Trek: The Next Generation door chime. They also play Next Generation reruns. Yes, they had a pop-up ad (for another show) which included a sound that was taken from the show that was actually playing.
Sci Fi loved running half-screen Ghost Hunter popups in the middle of Eureka.
Their Mork & Mindy marathon that ran the day after Thanksgiving of 2008 (which included episodes from the fourth season, which was unlikely to be released on DVD at the time due to music rights issues) was also plagued by Ghost Hunter pop-ups.
The UK arm of the station were running some kind of semi-market-research survey by telephone over about a week sometime in the 90s. This was advertised by wanging a massive picture of a head with a question mark in it over the right-hand third of the screen and a question with a phone number to dial on the other two thirds. Right in the middle. For ages.
Inverted on the Today show. They will run their commercials in a popup for things coming up later on the show.
On G4's X-Play, bugs became so common (and occasionally covered up important words or numbers, such as game ratings, at the corner or bottom of the screen), that, in one game review, they inserted a number of bugs all over the screen at random intervals that obscured it completely.
Invoked on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert when the stars of the series Schitt's Creek were guests. Supposedly, the censors only let them mention the name of the show on-air if an ad appeared ("Schitt's Creek — Wednesdays on Pop") each time it was mentioned. Of course they proceeded to do so a lot.
     Networks 
A non-advertising example happens sometimes on Japanese networks whenever a major earthquake note  is about to occur. First, a large pop-up showing a map of where the earthquake will happen is shown on screen along with text mentioning the affected areas, accompanied by the sound of chimes and a narrator saying "This is an early earthquake warning. Prepare for powerful tremors", which repeats twice. Sometimes, two of those graphics will pop up at once and cover the entire screen. It can be a major distraction for anyone watching whatever program is currently on. note 
Related to the practice above, sometimes Japanese networks announce breaking news through banners called telops. First, text saying "(Channel name) News" will pop up (which is accompanied by a chime on all channels save for TV Tokyo), which is followed by a blurb relating to some breaking news, usually relating to an earthquakenote , tsunami, volcanic eruption or typhoon. Here's an example of a kids' show airing with a telop.
TV Tokyo uses the telop method all the time to report breaking news rather than stopping regular programming like most networks. This is known as The Legend of TV Tokyo.
A rare non-news example of this trope on Japanese TV: On one episode of Chibi Maruko-chan, a text message thanking the late Sakura Momoko for her work was shown over the closing credits.
Japanese cable channels also have these warnings. Here's an example featuring a volcanic eruption warning that aired during the Milo Murphy's Law crossover with Phineas and Ferb.
Disney Channel Japan will also show these banners in English right after the Japanese version is shown.
It wasn't just Japan that did this. NTV, a channel based in the Canadian province of Newfoundland, used to (until about 2008 or so) run news tickers during some of their early-morning programming (and possibly their primetime lineup as well). One time, they ran a Rape as Drama-related ticker during the kids' show Ricky's Room.
This also happens in the United States, too. Here's an example from a qubo airing of VeggieTales that involves a weekly required Emergency Alert System test. Occasionally, if the warning happens to be weather-related, maps tracking the path of a severe thunderstorm, hurricane, tornado or snowstorm will be superimposed over the program, like this image◊ from the premiere airing of the Daniel Tiger's Neighborhood episode "Daniel Gets Mad" on a PBS affiliate in Illinois.
This was spoofed in one of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid books. Rowley's family recorded a Christmas special long ago, and the year they recorded it there was a storm warning at the bottom of the screen. Now whenever Rowley watches the video, he calls Greg to tell him there's a winter storm coming. Greg used to fall for it until one day when Rowley called him about a winter storm during summer vacation.
The 2011 National EAS test on Nickelodeon took this trope Up to Eleven. Not only did the banner announcing the test block part of the programming, but it also blocked both the station bug and the "Up Next" pop-up!
Uncle Ray's House spoofs the "news ticker" variation of this trope, by having the news report relate to the show in question.
Back to TV Tokyo, they've done non-news related popups on their kid's shows as well. For example, during PriPara's 100th episode celebration in 2016, they placed references to the number 100 throughout it. If viewers were able to list all the times it appeared in the episodes, they'd be entered to win PriPara-related prizes. There was another campaign around the same time where viewers had to spot TV Tokyo's banana mascot in each of their kids' shows and tell them what scene it appeared during. The prizes varied based on the show, but PriPara's was noteworthy for giving away several pieces of merchandise that were not officially released yet at the time of the campaign.
At the beginning Merchandise-Driven shows aired on Japanese channels, a text ad for the interactive feature Kids Data pops up on screen. This feature allows children watching the show to answer trivia questions about it or play a game with one of the characters, as was the case with the most recent Pretty Cure series, to be entered for a chance to win merchandise from the show in question. Sometimes, this will also be used to announce news related to the show itself, like promoting theatrical releases, events and contests related to the show.
On the first broadcast of Star★Twinkle Pretty Cure, an ad covered the top corner of the screen during the ending theme telling viewers that they can watch this episode again on demand on TVer.
Some children's preschool programming blocks like Nick Jr. and Playhouse Disney kept a solid logo in the corner of the screen, obscuring what was under them. For instance, when Playhouse Disney was about to premiere JoJo's Circus, they showed a bumper that not only took up part of the screen, but also had an animation of a floating balloon accompany it.
4Kids did this, and their logo was not particularly semi-transparent. This often made it difficult to see things like life points, or the attack strength of a monster (in Yu-Gi-Oh!).
Though technically not a pop-up, the "TV ratings" logos used on American TV appear to be getting bigger and bigger, with it now not uncommon for the icon to over as much as 1/5 or more of the screen, obscuring the scene noticeably. Fortunately, rumors at the time of their introduction that they'd be required on DVD releases as well turned out to be untruenote .
The cable news channels count down to presidential speeches or a state's election close, while CNBC and Fox Business will put timers on to countdown to the releases of economic reports.
One Animal Planet bug for a then-upcoming show about training dogs to perform various cool tricks used the "pause the actual show" trick. A frisbee would fly in, the current show freezing while a dog caught it, then the host would walk up, praise it, and lead it away before letting the show continue.
On Cartoon Network, sometimes a gigantic ad advertising the next show will literally cover the bottom 40% of the screen.
Early in The '90s, The Discovery Channel used to have an annoying pop-up promoting their website: a "bing!" sound, a pop-up and a "mouse double click" sound promoting the web links to which ever program you were watching. After a few months (and viewer complaints) this went away as the novelty of the web wore off.
Disney Channel Scandinavia used to have in years 2006-2007 a popup with an elevator landing from top to the bottom right corner of the screen, then it opened revealing a picture of the character from whichever show was coming up next (i.e. Tarzan, Kim Possible, Jake Long, Fillmore). It would show up two minutes before the show's episode ended.
E! has bugs running pretty much constantly. This makes sense during their normal shows, where a celebrity gossip newsreel would fit right in. It does not make sense, however, when this pops up during a movie screening.
Fox teased the premiere of Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles by randomly broadcasting a pair of red eyes on its feed during certain shows like Gordon Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares. Example.
Fox Kids used to have a popup with a little screen, a flashing yellow arrow, and picture of the Series Mascot for whichever show was coming up next (i.e. Tai, red ranger). It would show up during the third act and the tag. They used similar icons for their commercials.
Game Show Network used to have a huge bug for PlayMania that went two-thirds of the way across the screen and about a quarter of the way up. Just barely wide enough to obscure the password in Password and its revivals, the correct answer shown briefly to home viewers in Double Dare, etc.
Global TV in Canada used to have large pop-ups advertising Uncharted 2: Among Thieves.
MTV in the UK feel the need to keep the name of the programme you're watching on-screen at all times. While this is often helpful during music video slots, certainly themed ones (MTV UK is actually still reasonable for this, broadly speaking) it's less relevant during regular programming.
On NBC Kids, the NBC logo falls off and a child's hands glue the logo back on. This happens several times each kids show, leading to some Fridge Logic that maybe the kid should try a stronger adhesive, like tape.
Nickelodeon and the Disney Channel LOVE to advertise when they have a new movie premiering soon. They'll put up a timer counting down to High School Musical or The Cheetah Girls or whatever they're going to show up to 24 hours beforehand.
PBS Kids, like most other networks, has the little box telling viewers what show is airing and when it premieres. They include a little skit with the characters from their shows in their popups, such as the ones for/during Odd Squad Saves the World. A little after the episode "Dance Like Nobody's Watching" began, the "You're Watching [show name] on PBS Kids!" box appeared. Then Oscar pops up, holding a gadget, and activating it, the box ripples in a pretty pink color. The box has its normal red color, but then proceeds to completely disappear from the screen. This whole shebang practically would distract this viewer for its duration.
The first airing of the episode "O Is Not For Old" had the box show up except the "You're Watching..." text was flipped upside down. Ms. O then appears, elbow-bumping the box and causing the text to readjust. She then broke the fourth wall and proceeded to give the viewers two thumbs-up for about 5 seconds before everything disappeared by moving down. Not the same disappearing act as the example above. Again, huge distraction.
There was also another one where Olive and Otto did a little fixing-up of the box with the same text. They actually dropped down from the top of the screen to the bottom. It then did the same disappearing act as Ms. O's box.
The same situation as the first example happened when Odd Squad first premiered.
In the early 90's, some PBS stations covered the lower quarter of the screen during pledge drives with a telephone number during kids' programming. Here's an example from an airing of Barney & Friends.
SBS 6 in the Netherlands once stopped a movie in a manner that resembled a network/signal problem for a quick ad for a dance show hosted by a resident presenter.
TNT's NBA coverage will use a free throw to sneak one of these in (usually for one of TNT or even TBS's original productions) sometimes, along with an Enforced Plug by the announcers.
TNT had small pop ups that weren't very intrusive, but when it changed formats, it got bad. Spike TV had a bad habit of doing animated pop ups for their cartoons like Gary the Rat and Stripperella, often just before or after commercial breaks. They'd take up perhaps a third of the screen.
In the last few years of its run, Toon Disney did similar things, not only popping up advertisements, but also taking up a full third of the screen to show you a loud purple pattern giving the name of the show you are watching, for the benefit of parents who might find this more helpful in their decision-making process than just looking at the giant robots fighting on-screen.
USA Network had a commercial for Psych that has fun with this: one bug for the series has the two leads walk into the corner for a while. During a seemingly normal commercial for the same series, the bar pops up—and Shawn and Gus spot it.
USA Network used to have non-transparent bugs featuring Monk poking at the bug itself, but they've since switched to mostly transparent USA logos and sometimes messages that a new episode of whatever show will be starting at x time.
In March of 2001, YTV's "The Zone" block had a subplot involving "Yokomites", literal bugs that would show up at random points in the show. Here is the only surviving footage of that subplot.
Similar to the Rugrats example, Family in Canada had one around 2004 for a back to school-themed contest where a "BTS" bug would appear at a random point in the show. You could be entered for a contest if you correctly named the show and episode that it appeared in.
YTV did the same about a year earlier but with a different colored Fruit Loop rolling by (the contest was sponsored by Kelloggs).
During the airing of the 1968 television film Heidi on NBC, the network put up a "sports bulletin" with the final score of an Oakland Raiders/New York Jets football game ... during the scene in which Clara takes her first steps. This only escalated viewer outrage over NBC having pre-empted the rest of said game and its Miracle Rally on the east coast so they could air said film on-schedule (network staff had intended to start the film after the game after noticing how intense it had gotten, but the phone lines at network control were overwhelmed by viewers asking about if they planned to air the movie or the game).
ABC uses the hashtag variation, but unlike other networks that do this, it's usually placed underneath the station bug and is small and not intrusive.
When Primestar was about to be discontinued, a warning banner that covered half of the screen would appear during random points in the program. Here's an example from an airing of the Alvin and the Chipmunks episode "May The Best Chipmunk Win" on Cartoon Network.
One year, CTV literally put up snipes during the Golden Globe Awards to advertise when winners were available for streaming on its parent company's subscription service.
When AT&T and DirecTV planned to drop 23 Viacom-owned channels in 2019, said channels put a banner at the bottom of some of the screen during shows alerting viewers to fight to keep the channels on the network. Annoyingly, not only did these banner ads stay onscreen for several minutes and repeat the message, they appeared even if the viewer didn't have AT&T/DirecTV and wasn't at risk of losing the channels.
In Canada, especially after the regulators mandated the implementation of "skinny basic" service bundles and a la carte purchasing of specialty channels, they will now make a big deal about when they're in a free preview period, often with obvious "Now in free preview!"/"Free preview on now" text next to their bug (either occasionally or all the time) in a similar means to a New Content Countdown Clock.
As of late-2018, ESPN's ticker now has a permanent slot for cycling advertisements in the bottom-right of the screen, typically showing promos for other ESPN programs (and, on ABC broadcasts, ABC programs). Several networks have already imitated this, including New England's NESN (which ripped off the design of the entire ticker wholesale), and NBC. MLB Network used to have a tall tab above the ticker in the bottom-right to promote their next game broadcast, but has since streamlined it into the ticker itself.
On the WCBS broadcast of the October 5, 2020 episode of The Young and the Restless, a news ticker announcing NYC area schools would be closed the next day covered half of the screen.
     Professional Wrestling 
This can get pretty extreme during Professional Wrestling shows, as not only do the pop-ups take up space on the screen and distract from the match, but the commentators all of a sudden start ignoring the match and begin shilling for the show or product being advertised.
     Web Animation 
Parodied in a Strong Bad E-Mail where Strong Bad mentioned "Discovery Channel" specials about CGI dinosaurs. While he said this, a bug for the fictional CGI Walking With Trogdor appeared. Sadly, despite being a parody, it fit here, as it appeared exactly within the confines of the back of Strong Bad's head.
Bugs for the latest game in the The Escapist's promo cycle appear in many of their video features, including Zero Punctuation's.
     Web Original 
The website Blip.tv was notorious for this, sometimes showing advertising bugs seemingly every 2 minutes, and about every other bug is unhideable.
Neopets spoofs internet popups with their game Advert Attack—the game's entire challenge is navigating around or getting rid of fake ads that dominate the screen so you could actually get at the game's controls.
It's not just television that has done this, either. Japanese video site Nico Nico Douga actually started adding interstitial ads smack-dab in the middle of the video you happen to be watching, with no way to skip ahead or pause at all. When you try to watch a music video, you get hit with a two-minute ad for Penguin Musume Heart out of nowhere.
Pandora radio features not only ads between songs, but full-video ads between stations.
This archived article from a possibly now defunct Rugrats fansite has a minor complaint about network bugs covering up presenter captions on the Kids' Choice Awards.
Television Without Pity forums used to have one post about a forum-er who saw The Reveal of a tattoo in a 7th Heaven rerun get covered up with a pop-up.
A variation happens on video sharing websites such as YouTube where the pop-ups are usually for larger companies. Case in point: During a stream of an Amagami video, an ad for McDonald's coffee showed up, resulting in a hilarious juxtaposition◊. It basically looked like the character was peeing out of her bathing suit.
In April of 2019, if one were to view This Very Wiki on a mobile device, an ad covering the entire screen would appear promoting tourism to Texas. In most cases, said ad would cause the browser to crash and display the text "A problem has occured, so the webpage was reloaded", creating headaches for those who were viewing the site on mobile.
In April 2020, websites like TitanTV and SoraNews24 began to use video pop-up ads that cover a good portion of the page. The most frequent ads to use this method are ones for cable provider Optimum and Disney+.
Dragon Ball Z Abridged mocked this in their "The Plan to Eradicate Christmas" movie, where the villain (Santa gone evil) accuses Goku of recklessly endangering the world countless times thanks to his lust for battle. Goku responded by asking how he could possibly endanger the whole universe — at which point a pop-up ad for Funimation's stream of the Tournament of Power appears.
     Western Animation 
Someone on late-night Teletoon must be an epic troll, because they've done these commercial pop-ups during American Dad! over things that require the bottom of the screen, such as Toshi's subtitles or the "Bill Publishermann" gag.
During the 'world premiere' of the Aqua Teen Hunger Force film on Adult Swim, the movie was displayed without sound in a tiny box in the corner of the screen, and episodes of Family Guy and Futurama aired while the movie ran (in its entirety) in the corner. During this, humongous pop-up ads for the movie with loud sound effects also appeared from time to time. But...this 'world premiere' was on April Fools' Day several days before the theatrical release, so it wasn't meant to be the 'serious' television debut by any means.
A gag one happens with the network logo version on Chowder. Chowder scribbles on the screen and gets yelled at. After it's cleaned up he points over at the Cartoon Network logo and asks "What about that one?" to which Gaspatcho responds, "That one doesn't come off. I've tried." The channel icon is part of the episode, making it obvious that the logo has changed since the episode's initial airing.
Parodied in an episode of Drawn Together: Ling-Ling (who speaks in pseudo-Japanese and can only be understood through subtitles) is trying to convince the other housemates to help him, when suddenly a bug for The Daily Show appears, obscuring everything he's saying. Another character exclaims "Ling-Ling's right! I love the Daily Show!"
Family Guy:
An episode makes a joke using this where, during a feminist speech by Lois, Marge appears in a pop-up ad for The Simpsons at the bottom of the screen and Quagmire tries to have sex with her. It then shifts into an overly long Take That! against The Simpsons.
In the episode "Peter's Progress", during the wedding ceremony scene, there was a running gag where Stewie would repeatedly break the fourth wall to complain about and kibitz the pop-ups. Plus, most of the promos were for fake shows named after the type of image in the pop-up, such as "Shovin' Buddies", "Slowly Rotating Black Man", and "Crossarmed Opposites".
Stewie: You and I are like t- (A pop-up for 24 appears) Oh, I'm sorry, is my wedding interrupting your promotion? We're right in the middle of our show! Okay, right now, you have a time slot, go there! Maybe finish this candy bar before opening another one! (The ad disappears) Well, at least it wasn't one of those promos where they got the whole cast shoving each other playfully like they're all good pals. (A pop-up for Shovin' Buddies appears) Oh, oh, look! There we go! Oh, look at 'em jostling each other around! Oh, they give each other a hard time, but they're friends!
Lois: Is that a real show?
Stewie: No, it's just... no, it's, somebody's making a joke, forget it.
When the episode first aired in Spain on laSexta, they went on with the gag by putting a banner of its flagship humour show Se lo que hicisteis. After this incident, the program did a sketch about what had happened. Here's the full video.
Family Guy being what it is, it's used pop-up ads for Biting-the-Hand Humor multiple times.
Brian: Oh my God! Somebody call 911!
[an ad for 9-1-1 appears]
Brian: Dammit, Fox, that's not an invitation to ruin our moment to expand your media empire!
[an ad for Empire appears]
Brian: [sighs] Son of Zorn.
[beat]
[a "File Not Found" error appears]
Brian: Hah.
One episode of Frisky Dingo had a message on the screen for 15 seconds at the start that said "This is where the network puts that mammoth bug." Then, "Enjoy the show." Biting-the-Hand Humor doesn't even begin to cover it.
Comedy Central's Futurama ends with the credits being shown in a small 'tear' in the bottom of the screen while the beginning of the next episode starts. Great idea, saves time and everything, right? Well, except that it now completely blocks out the unique-per-episode punch line they have written on the bottom of the screen...unless it's one of the few early episodes that starts with a cold opening, of course. Reruns of Scrubs do this, too, though both shows go back to the regular format if it precedes something like The Daily Show.
The premiere airing of one episode of Justice League had a bug that featured a giant robot, including metallic stomping and explosion sounds that actually obscured several lines of dialogue. Needless to say, the fans were not pleased.
Disney XD has ads for Marvel's Spider-Man that have Spider-Man hanging upside-down from the top-right corner of the screen and swinging down. This once showed up in a rerun of the Gravity Falls episode "Little Dipper" during the scene where Li'l Gideon has the Pines twins shrunk, making it look like Gideon shrunk Spider-Man.
The Simpsons:
One gag had Homer eating a Joe Millionaire pop-up.
Similarly, another Couch Gag had the Fox logo pop up on the screen, with the entire family rushing over to stomp on it (back when logo bugs were the only commercial pop ups around).
The creators of The Simpsons currently have a deal with Fox, wherein they will not put up real advertisements like this on during their show.
Also parodied in The Simpsons Movie, where, during a scene where Homer and Bart are daring each other, a pop-up ad for Are You Smarter Than A Celebrity appears, stating "Yes, we even have these in movies now." (Actually, it's a newsbar, but still...)
Marge went further at the start of the 2007 Treehouse of Horror: with so many ads, she gets angry ("Can't people just watch the show they're watching?") and gets rid of the promos in various ways, such as vacuuming football players with a minivac, sticking House in a microwave and putting the rest in a meatloaf. Wherein they wriggle.
In the Steven Universe Fake Crossover episode with Uncle Grandpa, "Say Uncle", Uncle Grandpa says he remembers Steven trying to activate his shield in the first episode, "Gem Glow" because he was watching from a bumper advertisement for his own show. Steven doesn't remember this at all.
Parodied in the South Park episode "More Crap" to celebrate their Emmy win for "Make Love, Not Warcraft". Whenever a particularly crass moment took place, an "Emmy Award Winning Series" message and trophy pops up on screen. At the end of the episode, the advertisement became a trophy given to Randy for having the biggest piece of crap in the world.
There is the incident with the season 2 finale of Transformers Animated. The credits incuded a humorous dialogue between Megatron and Starscream's head, floating about stranded in an unidentified region of space. But both of the original English-language airings (first YTV, then Cartoon Network shortly afterward) dubbed over that dialogue with interstitials, promoting mass rage within the Transformers fandom (or at least those who appreciate Animated).
Ads for Yin Yang Yo! had Yang pull a banner down (complete with sound effects) which obscured 80-95% of the screen. He then pulled it up after about two seconds.
The Phineas and Ferb special "Summer Belongs to You" parodies this. A fake pop-up appears declaring "You're watching television!", a sound effect is heard indicating Phineas has an idea, Phineas complains that the "ad" is obscuring a visual gag, and the pop-up disappears to show Ferb holding a triangle.
Teen Titans Go!:
On Easter weekend of 2017, there was an event called the Teen Titans Go Easter Egg Hunt on Cartoon Network, where they hid colored eggs throughout the episodes and viewers had to find them. If they named the correct episode and scene the egg appeared in, they would be eligible for a chance to win exclusive Cartoon Network merchandise.
Labor Day weekend of 2017 had promo cards pop up in the corner advertising the special Labor Day episode, which also include the Titans interrupting the show with a sound byte yelling "Labor Day!".
There was also this incident where a "Stop Bullying" bug appeared on the screen over a scene where most of the Titans were acting like bullies.
DuckTales (2017) occasionally has a big screen bug (taking up almost half of the screen) on some shows with Huey, Duey, Louie, and Webby climbing up on the Disney XD logo, and they jump on Launchpad's ship coming from the left side of the screen. There was also an in-universe example during the Sitcom Homage Episode "Quack Pack!" that only Huey was able to notice.
Back when they had Animaniacs, Cartoon Network had a bug where the Warners would march across the screen while their theme song played for about three seconds. It can be seen here.
Universal Kids used a particularly annoying one to promote Where's Waldo? (2019) which covered the entire screen in Waldo's trademark red and white stripes.
During the premiere of the SpongeBob SquarePants "Have You Seen This Snail?" special on Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network used this trope for a in-joke with a bug featuring a snail resembling Gary with a "I LOVE CN" sign appearing at the bottom of the screen during random programs. The intended joke was that Gary had "run away" from Nickelodeon to Cartoon Network, but many viewers didn't get the joke and found the bug to be rather annoying.
On Kids' WB!'s final airing of Skunk Fu!, part of Pig's subtitled dialogue when he attempts to speak in monkey language was obscured by the Kids' WB logo◊.
In the week leading up to the South Park season 24 premiere (a one-hour special themed around the COVID-19 Pandemic), pop-ups showed up on not just Comedy Central, but other Viacom-owned networks such as TV Land and MTV. The bug noted how many days until the special aired and showed images of the main four boys with masks on.

God in Human Form
"You can see for yourselves. She is a god. A god who does not know she is a god."
— Majere (referring to Mina) from Dragonlance
When some form of spiritual being, or deity, becomes encased in a mortal shell, usually causing them to have no or limited access to their powers… sometimes of their own design, sometimes forced upon them. Often referred to as an "avatar" after the Hindu religious term, but the word has gotten a little too commonplace to use as a trope name.
Of course, any example of this trope would be justified in saying "A God Am I", without the usual implications of megalomania. That said, many go the other route and say "A God I Am Not" due to their new proximity to mortality and humanity. Or they may be going incognito and brush off recognition by saying "Stop Worshipping Me!"
May or may not be accompanied with the loss of their memories of godly life. This is often justified as them wanting to better understand the lives of mortals, thus living a mortal life without remembering their godhood. In that case they may simply appear as a fully grown adult with no memory or past, or they may actually be born into a human family and live a seemingly average life.
As such, their human forms may often have a very different personality, and on occasion even alignment, from their True Self. For example, a villain could very well live their human life as a pure and chaste paragon of heroism, but return to villainy upon awakening. And a benevolent deity could very easily be a thuggish Jerkass. Although overall, it is more common for benign gods to be good people, and malevolent deities to be bad people. Killing the human form of the god, if it's possible, probably won't actually kill the god. Usually, it actually restores them to their former divine power and memories.
Note that despite the title, this isn't restricted to humans, it can include aliens and the like as well. As the Greek philosopher Xenophanes said: "If horses had gods, they would look like horses!"
Compare A Form You Are Comfortable With, Angel Unaware, Deity of Human Origin, and Physical God. Compare and contrast Humanoid Abomination, which is very similar in practice, but are not so good about hiding their true nature. May overlap with Pals with Jesus and God Was My Copilot. Contrast God Guise, when the character is not a god but is merely pretending to be one. Also see Amnesiac God and God Test.


Springtime for Hitler
Wedge Antilles: Tycho, we're about to achieve a tremendous victory we don't want.
Tycho Celchu: We'll put that in your biography. General Antilles was so good he couldn't fail when he tried to.
— Rebel Dream
A character's attempt to deliberately fail at some task (usually to fuel some other, hidden goal) backfires when the intended failure proves impossible, or becomes an unwanted success instead; in other words, they failed at failing.
This is usually caused by Finagle's Law at work, where the attempt to fail is so spectacular that it Crosses the Line Twice. Crossing it twice is always "better" than crossing it only once. In these cases, the meta-fail was a result of trying too hard.
In a variation (really more of a Failure Gambit Gone Horribly Right), the person will fail at the initial task as planned, but somehow manage not to accomplish the hidden goal that the failure was supposed to yield. The person is now doubly cursed, as they now have to deal with the fallout from their planned failure without being able to enjoy the rewards of the goal they were actually striving for. May be a result of Misaimed Fandom.
This is a Sub-Trope of Failure Gambit. Compare Fake–Real Turn, with "fake" and "real" replaced with "failure" and "success" respectively. Common for people with Dismotivation. May be caused by a Plague of Good Fortune. If the initial failure would be getting in trouble with the authorities, see Can't Get in Trouble for Nuthin'. Compare with Nice Job Fixing It, Villain!. For one going for success and succeeding despite others thinking he won't, see And You Thought It Would Fail. For when one doesn't even try to do anything but ends up winning anyway, see Wins by Doing Absolutely Nothing. Reassignment Backfire is similar where one sends a person they don't like or is expendable on a dangerous or impossible mission with the hopes they'll be killed in action, only for that person to come back alive and successful.
In contrast is the Xanatos Gambit, where the planner is perfectly content with the success of the first part of the scheme or the second part. Another contrast is Saved by a Terrible Performance, where a character who naturally fails to perform a certain task manages to save the day with their natural suck.
See also Reverse Psychology and Black Sheep Hit.
Not to be confused with Gone Horribly Right, where a person does succeed rather than fail, but that turns out to be a bad thing. Also not to be confused with Epic Fail, which is when an unintended failure happens in such sheer magnitude that the failure becomes impressive in and of itself. Inverted Trope of The Show Must Go Wrong, when the characters try to put on a good show and onstage catastrophe ensues. Draco in Leather Pants is similar, where one creates a villainous character, only for the fans to love them.
If you thought this trope had something to do with the bad guys from World War II, you may be looking for Those Wacky Nazis or Adolf Hitlarious.

Fingertip Drug Analysis
The detectives have raided a house and found some suspicious white powder or liquid. One of them puts his or her finger in it, then either sniffs it or tastes it. They pronounce it's heroin or cocaine or whatever. Or if it's phony drugs, they announce "Powdered sugar!"
Also done by drug-dealing baddies.
Seen in almost every 1970s Cop Show.
The mysterious white powder (almost) never, ever, ever turns out to be a deadly poison or corrosive chemical that kills or maims our hero outright, despite the fact that he's found something, doesn't know what it is, and is stupid enough to put it directly in his mouth. Even if it isn't poison, the amount of powder the hero tastes could very easily be far more than his system could handle.
This is Truth in Television to the extent that certain drugs (opium, for example) have a distinctive taste or odor. Cocaine can similarly be identified not by taste, but by the way it instantly numbs where it touches.note  However, any modern police lab is loaded with all kinds of test equipment for just this kind of thing. Without it, it's just a cop's word on the stand. (And how reliable would that word be if they just deliberately ingested something mind-altering?) But if a chemical reaction proves it's really drugs, it's a lot harder for a lawyer to disprove, and a lot safer for the cop (see the Real Life entries). Not to mention the fact that a police officer could get in serious trouble if they were tested and found to have a drug in their system.
If the substance is blood, you're performing The Ketchup Test. For any case of testing mysterious substances by taste or smell see Sniff Sniff Nom.

Traveling Salesman
A Traveling Salesman is an older character type that sometimes overlaps with the Snake Oil Salesman. Typically, the traveling salesman is well-dressed and has some aspects of the Intrepid Merchant to his character, or he may be more of an Honest John-type of fellow.
As the numerous jokes linking his type to the Farmer's Daughter suggest, he might be a somewhat lecherous character, because being always on the move isn't conducive to carrying on lasting relationships.
A British term for the profession is a "busman", and this is the origin of the term Busman's Holiday. Not to be confused with Travelling Salesman Montage.
Not to be confused with the 2012 film of the same name or the eponymous mathematics and computer science problem. Compare Knocking on Heathens' Door for the religious variant.
Truth in Television if you're familiar with the concept of food trucks, door-to-door salesmen, or farmer's markets.

Wreathed in Flames
Dr. McNinja: Oh, alright, the ninja poseurs out there now? They light you on fire? I guess I can spare a sec to get nuts on some punkers.
Dan McNinja: No. I lit myself on fire. Anyway, I got in pretty deep, and now these tootlepuffs are trying to get me all the time.
Dr. McNinja: You. Lit. Yourself. On fire. Why did you light yourself on fire.
Dan McNinja: Huh? Seriously? Because. They can't grab me if I'm on fire.
— The Adventures of Dr. McNinja
A subtrope of Playing with Fire.
A character has the ability to set their whole body ablaze with flames. Different from Man on Fire, as the latter trope involves that person being harmed by said fire. Because fire is awesome, this makes the character automatically awesome. If they can turn it on or off, expect them to enjoy showing off via Finger Snap Lighter. May be a form of Battle Aura. Flaming Hair is a subtrope of this, where a person can only ignite their hair, as well as Elemental Punch, where the character primarily lights their fists on fire to exploit Elemental Rock–Paper–Scissors. By their nature, the character is not harmed by setting themselves on fire — they have the Required Secondary Powers.
If the character becomes fire and is not simply covered in it, then the trope is Elemental Shapeshifter. May count as Elemental Armor. An extreme part of Burning with Anger.

Common Knowledge
There are some things that everyone knows. Well, sorta. As it turns out, people as a whole know less than they think they do. Casual viewers or readers of a work will often come away with their fair share of mistakes. Such fallacies are often used by real true fans as a yardstick of the difference between themselves and the masses.
All the same, these notions can be so firmly entrenched in the public zeitgeist that they can force their way into adaptations, much to the annoyance of the aforementioned real true fans.
Named for a Saturday Night Live game show sketch in which the questions were selected by experts reflecting things all high school seniors should know, and the answers were selected from a survey of high school seniors (that is, they were wrong).
Sub Tropes are:
Beam Me Up, Scotty!: An iconic catchphrase that either doesn't actually exist or is really a misquoted variant of what the character actually said.
Cowboy BeBop at His Computer: Documentations of a work get their facts about the work blatantly wrong, to the point that people familiar enough with the work will know that they didn't do their research properly.
Fandom-Enraging Misconception: A good way to piss off the fandom is to bring up a misconception of the work.
God Never Said That: Fans either misinterpret something the creator said or assume the creator said something when they said no such thing.
I Am Not Shazam: Assuming that the title of a work is the main character's name.
Spell My Name with an "S": A character's name does not have a consistent spelling, which may result from people not knowing the proper spelling.
Title Confusion: Misinterpretations and misunderstandings caused by a work's title.
May result from or lead to Lost in Imitation, or from any of the subtropes under Time Marches On. May result from Audience-Coloring Adaptation, where people assume the original work is the same as a well-known adaptation of the work. When left unchecked, it can lead to Analogy Backfire, Public Medium Ignorance, and Never Live It Down. Compare and contrast fanon and Pop Culture Urban Legends. See also Reality Is Unrealistic, The Coconut Effect, Dead Unicorn Trope, Everybody Knows That, Misblamed, and Shallow Parody. No relation to Lost Common Knowledge or the GSN Game Show of the same name.

Train-Station Goodbye
"The day's last one-way ticket train pulls in
We smile for the casual closure capturing
There goes the downpour
Here goes my fare thee well"
— The Fray, "Vienna"
The classic parting of two lovers at the train station.
The two Star-Crossed Lovers are saying goodbye: who knows if they will ever see each other again. Expect a conductor on the platform shouting "Board!", forcing them apart. As the train starts to pull out of the station, the lover staying behind runs alongside to keep his lover in view as long as possible, while the lover on the train either leans out the window or is pressed up against the glass.
A very effective Tear Jerker. Can be a Downer Ending, but occasionally the lovers are reunited through The Power of Love.
See also Airplane of Love. In a modern American context, this is an Undead Trope, as railroads have decayed in favor of short-hop plane flights and the automobile. It's more frequent in Japanese and European media, where trains remain a vital mode of transportation. In a story with a more supernatural edge, one may be seeing the other off at the Afterlife Express.
If the lover who's staying is trying to get to the station before the train pulls out, it overlaps with Race for Your Love.

Blood from Every Orifice
We all know that when a character starts coughing up blood, it's a bad sign, and nosebleeds can be similarly ominous. Therefore, if you want to kick those tropes up a few notches and really hammer home how doomed a character is, just have them bleed from everywhere: mouth, nose, ears, eyes, and even some other places if you really want to gross out the audience.
Such an extreme case of bleeding is usually reserved for deaths that are out-of-the-ordinary; it might be caused by magical or psychic powers, advanced technology, aliens, or just a really nasty and probably contagious new disease.
See also: Blood from the Mouth, Deadly Nosebleed, Psychic Nosebleed, and Tears of Blood.

Guns Akimbo
"Give a guy a gun, and he's Superman. Give him two, and he's God!"
— Superintendent Pang, Hard Boiled
Is one gun just not badass enough? Try two!
As far back as the westerns of the 1950s, The Gunslinger has often strapped on two pistols. Double-fisted firing of handguns just looks cool. Especially when the shooter hits two different targets with one noisy, confusing volley. Slow-mo leaping and dodging with Bullet Time effects not required, but helpful. Bonus points if the weapons of choice are fully automatic machine pistols, like Ingram SMGs or Micro-Uzis, and/or are held Gangsta Style.
This trope is a standard feature of The Western. Usually the two-gun fighter is just that much better than his opponents, that he can draw two guns in the time it takes them to draw one. In The Old West and The Cavalier Years, carrying two pistols was a practical result of long reload times. Combing this trope with Throw-Away Guns meant some people carried several guns strapped to their body to keep up a steady rate of fire.
In police oriented shows, procedurals and action media alike, this trope is largely a villain trait. The two-gun fighter is usually a destructive psycho with no regard for collateral damage, particularly Two Uzi Guy. Police characters and other heroes will usually be contrasted by using proper technique with a single gun, showing their discipline and concern for safety.
In stylized action media, especially Heroic Bloodshed movies and Anime, this trope is one of the primary elements of the art of Gun Fu. The two-gun fighter in these media is often very skilled, has Heroic Ambidexterity, can pick off multiple targets with pinpoint accuracy, use his guns as melee weapons and maybe do other crazy things one would not normally be able to do with a gun.
The style of shooting varies wildly with the user. A guns akimbo shooter might concentrate rapid fire on a single target at a time, simply doubling his output of bullets on the target by using two guns. He might instead track multiple targets at the same time, aiming in different directions or even behind his back. If he has automatic weapons, he may spray both guns wildly to saturate the area with lead. Overlapping with Throw-Away Guns, the character might simply draw a second weapon with his off-hand when his primary weapon runs out to save time in reloading, the classic "New York Reload."
The logical conclusion is to make the wielder Multi-Armed and Dangerous.
Compare Dual Wielding, Sword and Gun, and Firing One-Handed. A popular way of achieving More Dakka. See also Gun Kata and Gun Fu. Like other fighting styles with multiple weapons, this may be a manifestation of Heroic Ambidexterity.
Not to be confused with the 2019 film of the same name, which prominently enforces the trope.

Gross-Out Show
"Now was that funny or just disgusting? I don't know, I'm asking."
— Slap T. Pooch, Oh Yeah! Cartoons
Animated show that relies heavily on ugly animation, displeasing concepts and extreme close-ups of things such as hairy, warty green tongues, stink-line-laden sewage sandwiches, and toilets that haven't been cleaned in a long time.
Pioneered by John Kricfalusi with The Ren & Stimpy Show, this type of show dominated children's animation in the early 1990s. The animation house Klasky-Csupo and the studio Spumco specialized in animation of this style. Many of these clones failed to realize, however, that the success of Ren and Stimpy was also due to excellent writing, not just the presence of icky, stinky things. However, most of these clones would eventually develop their own loyal followings thanks to their other unique concepts.

Self-Duplication
Java: What the hell are you gonna do to me without your army?
Danton Black: [replicates himself] I am an army.
— The Flash (2014), "Fastest Man Alive"
The ability to make several copies of oneself, normally maintaining control over all copies. Usually comes implicitly with the ability to recombine said copies.
This power can be very potent. One can be effectively immortal if at least one of you survives, one gets the ability to distract, surround and hinder your opponent and if all the duplicates work from a single mind it all occurs with perfect coordination. This power is an opportunity for writers to show off the creative combat techniques and imaginative Mundane Utilities.
There may or may not be some idea of a central self, one copy who is the "proper" version for whatever reason: you have to kill that one to kill them all at once, one gives all of the commands, etc. The other copies, conversely, rarely count as persons in and of themselves; see also Cloning Blues. If they are counted as actual people, expect Which Me?.
Possible side-effects include Literal Split Personality. May be used in a Doppelgänger Attack, a Breather Episode might go for Me's a Crowd. Not to be confused with I Am Legion. Power Perversion Potential means this naturally leads to Screw Yourself.

This Is for Emphasis, Bitch!
Buffy: What are you doing here? Five words or less.
Spike: [counting them off on his fingers] Out. For. A. Walk. [realizes he still has the thumb] Bitch.
— Buffy the Vampire Slayer
It's ending a sentence with a comma and "Bitch!" (no other swear word, just "bitch"note ), as a way of verbally making an exclamation point in dialog.
It did get overused, so now it's a Discredited Trope. You're as likely as not to see it thrown into a sentence just to be funny, even when there is not really a reason to emphasize a point this way.
This does not count when merely calling someone a bitch. This is about using it as a form of verbal punctuation. If there is anything between the comma and "bitch", it doesn't count. (You know that famous line in Aliens? Not this trope.) Additionally, using any swear word other than "bitch" does not count for this trope either.
It can be put at the beginning of the sentence, but the same rules apply to conform to this trope.
This can overlap with Quote Swear Unquote, Obligatory Swearing.
Compare (but would not overlap with) Verbal Tic, Precision F-Strike. Also worth noting that "Bitch" is considered a Gendered Insult. See also Spelling for Emphasis for a politer way to emphasise.

Totally Radical
"Come on down to 'Bling Bling'! Market research said our name was cool!"
— Jewelry Store Radio Ad, Saints Row 2
Yo, the kids love Descriptions of Totally Radical Here. They think it's bodacious.
Most television shows for audiences younger than 25 are written by people significantly older than the target demographic. On its own, this is all right. It is when these writers attempt to co-opt the culture of the younger generation that the trouble starts.
The biggest problem is slang. Either it's out of date (usually from the writers' own childhood), awkwardly misused, or just used far too frequently in the dialog. Either way, there will be gnarly, bitchin' amounts of it, slathered over the dialogue like sauce over a particularly inept casserole.
Also problematic is what kids do in their leisure time. This can be particularly painful if they're attempting An Aesop about something that's recently become popular. Usually, that involves many stereotypical "bad boy" or "cool" activities, such as videogames, surfing, motorcycling, or fixing cars; a recent example would be grossly stereotypical "Sk8r Boiz". However, even your standard episode won't probably show video games (for instance) as anything but the back of a TV with some Pac-Man-esque beeps and boops played over the soundtrack.
A major problem with this trope as a whole is that it plays into loose stereotypes that really don't apply to the majority of real life children or teenagers. While kids and (especially) teenagers may be more likely to give in to pop culture trends than adults, they too are individuals with their own unique tastes and preferences. Even the latest Teen Idol will likely only have a small fraction of real life teenagers as "hardcore fans", while the remaining 90% of teens will have opinions ranging from disdain to indifference to relatively casual fandom.
This also applies to commercials focused on kids, although they'll at least be knowledgeable about the product they're selling.
Totally.
Of course, this can be done well. Most producers figure, though, that kids can't tell good writing from bad, and throw whatever out there. Because TV Never Lies, some impressionable viewers even believe it, resulting in Pretty Fly for a White Guy. Buffy Speak is a common way of avoiding this for those who do care. Another way to avoid the problem is to do it intentionally badly.
Don't forget, you copacetic hepcats, that if a show is trying to be set in a period older than the 80s, the same rules apply.
Shows on the Disney Channel, Nickelodeon, and Cartoon Network are known for doing this, despite most of them centering around tweens and teenagers. This is usually entwined with the overuse of far-past-neutered euphemisms, like "crud". Badbutt characters often speak this way.
A rich, deep well of Narm, especially when it's a Long Runner's obvious ploy to stay Relevant, Dammit. A lot of these examples also veer into So Bad, It's Good territory. A character like this may also be The Nicknamer. This character also tends to believe that Like Is, Like, a Comma.
See also Younger and Hipper, Jive Turkey, Buffy Speak, Surfer Dude, Valley Girl, L33t L1ng0, Xtreme Kool Letterz; this is also a common trait of the Mascot with Attitude and the Hippie Teacher. Often, this overlaps with Nostalgia Filter, as works that use this trope typically give very idealized depictions of childhood. Speaking Like Totally Teen is a common In-Universe mockery of this.
Contrast with Spock Speak, Keigo, Little Professor Dialog, and Neologism. Not to be confused with someone who is a total radical.

Duel to the Death
I can't tell what's wrong or right
If black is white or day is night
But I know when two men collide
It's a question of honour!
— Sarah Brightman, "Question of Honour"
An affront has been committed!
The hero has been affronted. Or the villain has. Or someone has dragged the Damsel in Distress into some dangerous situation against her will. Or someone in the cast hasn't realized that they're in Cloudcuckooland and that it's a serious crime to offer Cheesy Poofs to the daughter of the mayor. Or it's a rival situation and "this town ain't big enough for the both of us."
Whatever the situation, sitting down rationally and talking out the differences is just not going to settle things. No, the only way the offended party feels they can have satisfaction is with a Duel to the Death — nothing else will do! So, after striking the offending person upside the head with a glove [horseshoe, brick, or rock optional] to announce your intent, possibly doing so in public, it's time to choose your weapons!
Weapon types can include:
Swords (which, depending on the setting, may have a Laser Blade)
Guns
Martial Arts
Wacky items like pies or water balloons
Airplanes
Giant Robots
Magic
...and it usually is considered bad form to use your superpowers if either or both parties has them. Villains, of course, will try to do so anyway. If one character lacks a weapon, Give Me a Sword may ensue — and other characters may use this to try to stop the duel. Generally, it is the right of the challenged to choose the manner of combat, and it is considered highly improper for the challenger to object to the choice.
Sometimes it's a formal "pistols at dawn" duel. Sometimes it's something dictated by The Government of the city, town, planet, or dimension in which the scene takes place. Sometimes it's just a fight where there's an unspoken certainty that the loser will not be getting up again. Sometimes the location and circumstances of the duel are quite outrageous.
When the hero wins, he will almost always show mercy to his opponent, much to the opponent's humiliation (unless he's an Anti-Hero out for revenge, in which case all bets are off). In such cases, the villain may taunt the hero for cowardice or weakness; or he may try to take his own death blow after the duel has officially ended and the hero is walking away, in which case, fifty-fifty, the result will often be the villain getting killed in self-defense (a form of Karmic Death) or the hero or one of his friends stopping the villain Just in Time.
When the villain wins, you can count on the villain to strike mercilessly. The other party will die or may have to be rushed to whatever works for first aid/resurrection in this instance. On the other hand, this may be the point of which you learn the other character is not a villain (Get It Over With is common).
And several duels in media end with the loser having to get out of town.
Honor may (theoretically) be satisfied with first blood, or first serious injury. However, because it will be fought with real weapons, any duel can end in death.
Commonplace in westerns, naturally, with the Quick Draw shoot out Showdown at High Noon as the duel type. Jidaigeki or chanbara movies also tend to end this way, with two samurai engaging in a Single-Stroke Battle over a matter of honor, and the outcome of this is usually the death of one or both of the samurai involved.
May overlap with Fight Clubbing, where the duel is, arguably, for fun. At least the spectator's fun. Compare Ten Paces and Turn. Often enforced in Gladiator Games and a Deadly Game. A situation where the combatants don't have a choice in the matter is an Involuntary Battle to the Death.
There are lesser variations, and greater ones beyond simply "to the death."
A lot of Card Game Anime actually end up with duels for The Fate Of The World rather than just the lives of the two involved. Serious Business, you know.
See Wizard Duel for the magical equivalent. Compare Combat by Champion, and Trial by Combat. Sniper duels are a subtrope, though they usually just occur in the normal course of warfare rather than being explicitly agreed upon beforehand.
The video game version of this, of course, is the Duel Boss.

Nose Tapping
When a character taps their nose, they "know" something.
This seems to be a western cultural thing; in Asian cultures, pointing to the nose (or the face in general) is equivalent to the Western gesture of gesturing at your chest to indicate you're talking about yourself (essentially, the unconscious gesture you do anytime you say, "Who, me?") Indeed, nose tapping is almost always dependent on the context in order to make much sense at all what it is. All any of these examples can really say for sure is that tapping the nose means something.
Can, of course, be used to indicate The Nose Knows, but not required.
Hand Stomp
One character has just fallen over the edge of a cliff after getting pushed over by the villain. Fortunately, he is able to grab onto the side of the cliff to prevent himself from falling to his death. However, the villain, being the Card-Carrying Villain that he is, attempts to get rid of the hero by stomping on his hands, causing the hero to slowly lose his grip on the cliff that he's hanging on to.
This can easily backfire if the villain misses the hand or the hero manages to grab their leg with the other arm, resulting in the villain falling instead. In a way, this trope is the villainous opposite of The Hero's common tendency to try to pull up the villain when he finds himself in a similar predicament.
This is a common Villain Trope that can show up in some forms of media.
Fingore is usually implied, if not invoked.
Related to Kick the Dog.

Area 51
"You are here. We are not."
— As seen on a directory map of Area 51-A, The Simpsons
For the arcade game, see Area 51. For the later First-Person Shooter with the same name, see Area 51 (FPS).
A top-secret United States Air Force base in the Nevada desert... until 2013, when it was revealed to be a test site for spy planes. (Unless that's what They want you to think, of course.)
In fiction, this is usually associated with the otherworldly and all manner of government conspiracies. The most popular theory is that aliens and spacecraft (particularly those recovered from Roswell, New Mexico) are being held and studied there. If any of this tech has seeped into common human use, the assertion may be made that E.T. Gave Us Wi-Fi. Characters will often outright deny the existence of the base, despite its existence and uses prior to Roswell being relatively well-known and even documented.
In Real Life, Area 51 is an Air Force base of some kind (in the middle of an area officially designated as a bombing range, no less), officially known as the US Air Force Flight Test Center, and also known by the nicknames Groom Lake (for the dry lakebed the runways are on), Homey Airport (which is it's 'official' title, with the airport code KXTA, though it goes without saying that pilots should NOT attempt to land here), Dreamland and Neverland. It is one of several remote facilities that make up the massive complex of Nellis Air Force Base (though is officially a detachment of Edwards Air Force Base in California). The more popular nickname stems from the naming system for areas involved in the Nevada atomic weapons testing; "Area-XX" was the default system for naming regions within or near the testing range, and the base was located in "Area 51" according to this system. The location was chosen due to the lakebed, which made an ideal landing strip when Lockheed Martin needed to relocate its Skunk Works; the base has the longest purpose-built runway in the world, though it appears to have been partially decommissioned following the U-2 spyplane project. It's been used in the past to test extremely secret experimental aircraftnote , which is probably the source of some of the rumors. What's going on there now (if anything) is way beyond your security clearance, and most US maps show a big blank over the area (Google Maps and Earth do not, though Maps humorously lists the base under the "Homey Airport" nickname, and also lists it as closed). The closest anyone has gotten to revealing what goes on at Area 51 was a lawsuit brought by workers at the base due to unsafe conditions — apparently, Area 51 has No OSHA Compliance — but the suit was thrown out of court when the state secrets privilege was invoked. It has been pointed out by many that the government has to develop secret (from other governments) projects somewhere, even if those projects have nothing to do with otherworldly things.
The secrecy surrounding the base makes it a tempting subject for real-life conspiracy theorists and Speculative Fiction writers alike. Some stories make an important plot point of the true goings-on in Area 51, while others just allude to it as a Historical In-Joke. Proof of how evil and devious the complex is can be seen in how intruders are dealt with; using a system of buried motion sensors and guys in jeeps, they, um... Well, they call the Lincoln County Sheriff, who escorts the intruders back outside.
There is also an "Area 52", the Tonopah Test Range. This was home to a now-declassified Cold War program called "Constant Peg", involving American pilots training against real MiGs, small numbers of which had been delivered by defectors.
Dulce Base, a similar underground government base in northwestern New Mexico, has begun to take the place of Area 51 in the conspiracy theorist/UFO enthusiast circles as the shroud of secrecy surrounding the latter has faded. Indeed, some go as far as to claim that Area 51 conspiracy theories are all just disinformation designed to focus people's attention on a fairly non-exotic facility. Given that the Groom Lake facility is visible from the Nellis perimeter fence, they may have a point about it being a less-than-perfect base for things we aren't supposed to see. So far, it's presumed that Dulce is actually just an urban legend, as no evidence of it can be found above ground (though several people allege the base is entirely underground, and is a massive subterranean complex linked to various other sites such as Area 51 and Denver Airport via underground rail tunnels). Then again, Area 51 was thought to be an urban legend until the Soviet Union released satellite pictures of it.
And in August 2013, the CIA declassified a document talking specifically about Area 51. President Obama even joked about it a few months later.
In July 2019 a joke Facebook event to "storm Area 51" attracted more than 2 million responses. On the specified date of September 20th, 2019 150 people actually made it up to the main gate before being warned off by security.
A subtrope of Black Site. Compare Roswell That Ends Well.

Film / Hudson Hawk
"Hi! I'm being blackmailed into robbing the Vatican by a psychotic American corporation and the CIA!"
— Hudson Hawk
Hudson Hawk is a 1991 film starring Bruce Willis while he was still making the transition from comedy roles like Moonlighting to his Action Hero typecasting. Older tropers experienced with the actor's pre-Die Hard career will know this means he mugs a lot and does just about anything for a laugh. And he still has hair (well, mostly ... reportedly, a significant part of why the film went over budget was that Willis insisted on CGI to hide his thinning hairline).
Gentleman Thief extraordinaire Eddie "Hudson Hawk" Hawkins has just gotten out of prison, and all he really wants is a cappuccino and an honest job. However, his parole officer has teamed up with two Italian brothers with the surname "Mario" to force him to do one last job that leads to a madcap series of capers that do all they can to defy summation.
Before it's over, Eddie will hurtle down a freeway on a gurney, unknowingly flirt with a nun, burgle the Vatican with fifty bucks worth of seemingly random items, discover Leonardo da Vinci's secret formula for turning lead into gold, battle candy-bar codenamed CIA agents (and one damned annoying crotch-biting dog), and if he survives all of this, then he can have his coffee.
The '80s: Bookended by the fact that at the start and end of the film, after being released from prison after several years, Eddie has no idea what "playing Nintendo" is.
Actually Pretty Funny: Hawk and Tommy's insults at one point make Butterfinger laugh so hard his drink comes out of his nose.
Affably Evil: George Kaplan; picture an evil version of Derek Flint.
Kaplan: The last time you saw me, I was bald, with a beard and no mustache, and I had a different nose. So if you don't recognize me, I won't be offended.
Afraid of Needles: Cesar Mario's reaction to his brother's face in the ambulance.
Alliterative Name: Eddie's nickname: Hudson Hawk.
Almost Kiss: After their date, Eddie and Anna go back to her apartment, where she gives him a backrub. He says he needs to whisper something to her, their faces come together and Eddie tries to kiss her. She pulls away, breaking the moment.
Artistic License – Economics: The Mayflowers.
They want to make the world currency market collapse by making so much gold that it turns all of the stuff into Worthless Yellow Rocks. That might have worked in, say, 1965. However, ever since Richard Nixon took the US off the gold standard in 1971, no currency has any significant links whatsoever to gold, and making lots and lots of gold would only collapse the gold market - though the shockwaves from that will do a lot of damage.
The idea that their own fortune would be unaffected also falls short especially in that light; they're basically planning on causing an economic apocalypse, and they're investing in non-gold stocks instead of canned food and shotguns. They aren't even doing the "smart" financial move if you know that the price of a commodity is about to drop sharply, i.e. trying to short that commodity (in this case, gold).
There's some implications that "most of" their fortune is in physical commodities and properties whose relative value would be unchanged... Which doesn't explain how they can throw around money like it's already worthless pieces of paper.
Artistic License – Geology: Hudson Hawk is given a brick of gold and a brick of lead while blindfolded, to demonstrate that they are indistinguishable. Gold is 70% denser than lead, and the weight difference would be easily noticed. The gold brick would weigh about 30 pounds, but they handle it as if it weighs a couple of pounds. They also mention that gold and lead differ by one proton on the periodic table of elements. The difference is actually 3 protons and 7 neutrons. Perhaps most blatantly, gold is a far better heat sink than lead; Hawk should have noticed the lead brick warming in his hand almost instantly while the gold one stayed cold.
Artistic License – History: The horse Da Vinci made out of clay is the target of a heist in the film...but said horse shouldn't even exist, since it never got further than a clay model, and said model was destroyed in 1499 by French soldiers, who used it as a target for archery practice.
Also, the entire plot is centered around Da Vinci’s machine that somehow acts like the Philosopher’s Stone ... but Da Vinci wasn’t an alchemist and didn’t have a high opinion of the craft.
Auction: While Eddie and Anna Baragli are at an auction for the statue of a horse, the Mayflowers kill the auctioneer with an bomb placed in his gavel to disrupt the auction.
Ball Cannon: During the movie, the Mayflowers' evil dog Bunny performs a Groin Attack on Hudson Hawk and bites the neck of Hawk's girlfriend Anna Baragli. Eddie eventually gets his revenge, using a tennis ball launching machine to fire a ball at Bunny and knock her out a window and over a cliff to a Disney Villain Death.
Bar Slide: A bartender at the Five-Tone sends Eddie a cappuccino this way. Unfortunately, it’s shot out of his hand by Antony Mario.
Battle Butler: Alfred, the Mayflowers' butler who's a Knife Nut with a Blade Below the Shoulder; "A cross between Alistair Cooke and a Cuisinart."
Becoming the Mask: Anna falls in love with Hudson after seducing him for the Vatican.
Berserk Button: Caution: Do not insult God in front of a nun. One-Hit Kills can occur.
Big Bad Duumvirate: Darwin and Minerva Mayflower are the main antagonists of the film. They plot to use Da Vinci's secret machine for world domination.
Bilingual Bonus: The prologue sequence with Da Vinci is in Italian.
Blood from the Mouth: Butterfinger’s mouth drips with blood when Minerva shoots him down with arrows.
Blow Gun: Used by CIA agents, who should logically have something better, with explicit mention of curare, which is treated as a temporary paralyser. Because it was improperly prepared, the victims recover sooner than anticipated.
Bond One-Liner
"So much for his cut."
Also, after Eddie decapitates Alfred: "You won't be attending that hat convention in July!
Brake Angrily: While Eddie is being driven to the bar after being let out of prison, he tells Tommy Five-Tone about Gates' attempt to blackmail him into doing a job. Tommy angrily slams on the brakes, spilling Eddie's cappuccino.
Breaking the Fourth Wall: In the final shot, Eddie smiles in triumph at the camera after finally getting to drink a cappuccino.
Played With in-universe when Mayflower facetiously translates an Italian term "for those at home."
Break Out the Museum Piece: Leonardo da Vinci's 500 year old flying machine, which Eddie and Anna use to escape from the castle.
Brick Joke:
The duo sings songs to time (and synchronise) their capers. Each time, the song ends before the caper is over. At that very moment, they invariably get caught.
"Will you play Nintendo with me?"
Hudson Hawk deliberately sabotaging the assembly of the crystal causes Minerva to be coated in Bronze, which was the machine's original purpose in the prologue.
The Butler Did It: Quoted by Eddie when telling Tommy about Gates' death at the hands of Alfred, who is a butler.
Camera Spoofing: The "play back old footage" version is used in the auction house robbery. Unfortunately, two of the guards just saw an overweight colleague break a chair, which shows up intact on the spoofed images and reveals the trick.
Camp: It's basically a live-action cartoon.
Captain Obvious:
Butterfinger: "Hey coach, it looks bad. I think those Mayflowers set us up..."
The Playmate of the Year riding the car next to Hudson as he's rolling on a stretcher: "Hey mister! You gonna die?"
Card-Carrying Villain: The Mayflowers. "What can I say? I'm the villain!"
Catch Phrase: Tommy has one. Can you believe it?!
Character Title: "Hudson Hawk"
Check, Please!: While Eddie and Anna are in a cafe, Anna says that knowing he was in prison excites her. Eddie: "Check please!"
Christianity Is Catholic: Anna veers close to being a Naughty Nun, so much that her boss complains. But in reality she is a Good Catholic.
Chekhov's Gun:
Leonardo da Vinci's castle is a Chekhov's Armory. The opening with Leonardo's lab would make Tom Servo declare "Foreshadowing!"
Tommy and Hawk's game of rattling off a song's playing time takes on a whole new meaning during the first robbery.
There's a reason why we need to see the otherwise forgettable security guards taunting "Big Stan."
"Bunny, ball ball!"
CIA Evil, FBI Good: FBI isn't featured, but ex-CIA Kaplan is definitely evil.
Code Name: The Candy Bars, as their name indicates, are codenamed after famous candy bars: Snickers, Butterfinger, Kit Kat, and Almond Joy.
Almond Joy: Candy bars. Well, it's better than when we first started out. Our code names were diseases. You know what it's like being called Chlamydia for a year?!?
Co-Dragons: George Kaplan and Alfred both serve as the Mayflowers' principal henchmen.
Concealing Canvas: The auction house Eddie and Tommy break into hides its safe behind a large painting. The safe holds the "Sforza", the horse statuette that they're there to steal.
Confessional: Anna gives a confessional to her priest, who is also her spy handler.
Cover Drop: For the rope-swinging one.
Crazy-Prepared: Kit Kat communicates solely through pre-printed notecards, of which somehow he has one ready for every occasion he encounters.
Cut His Heart Out with a Spoon: "I will torture you so slowly you'll think it's a career!"
Damsel in Distress: Anna needs rescuing a few times, though she knows she doesn't make a very good one.
Deadpan Snarker: Hudson Hawk's even better at this than cat-burglary.
Death Equals Redemption: Kit Kat, after being betrayed and pumped full of arrows, uses his last breath to loosen the ropes on Anna, allowing her to escape.
Delayed Explosion: After Snickers' time bomb on his head counts down to zero and is delayed for a few seconds, Eddie and Tommy escape as the bomb then explodes.
Deliberately Bad Example: The CIA guys were already well-shown to be villains throughout the episode, but they also show that they don't have any of Hawk's scruples or care when their (off-screen) Louvre heist involves performing a terrorist attack that damages the museum and kills a lot of people so they can nab Da Vinci's artifact in the confusion.
Disney Villain Death:
Kaplan falls to his death along with the exploding limousine.
The evil dog Bunny performed a Groin Attack on Eddie and went for Anna Baragli's throat. Eddie uses a tennis-ball-firing device to knock her out a window and she falls to her death.
Distant Prologue: The film opens with a scene of Leonardo da Vinci creating the transmutation device.
Diving Save: During the auction, the auctioneer' gavel explodes, causing a giant sculpture to swing down toward Anna Baragli. Seeing her in danger, Hudson dives toward her and pulls her out of the way just in time.
Dragon His Feet: Hawk kills the Mayflowers by sabotaging the Gold Machine, but their Battle Butler Alfred was far enough away from it that Hawk has to beat him in a hand-to-hand fight before he goes down.
Dresses the Same: Kit Kat imitates the dress of Eddie and even mimics his movements.
Later, he appears wearing the same dress and hairstyle as Anna, which surprises even her.
Also, Igg and Ook, twin henchmen
Driving into a Truck: The ambulance carrying Eddie and Tommy Five-Tone away from the Mayflowers drives up a ramp into a truck.
Dumb Muscle: Butterfinger is not a very bright henchman.
Embarrassing Slide: The Mayflowers document their robbery with a slide show, but their S&M play gets accidentally included in the presentation. "Damned Fotomat assholes!"
Every Car Is a Pinto: The safety features on ambulances are apparently disabled by the presence of stupid mobsters. In the chase scene, an ambulance driven by the bad guys hits a mound of dirt, drives off a ramp, flips over and explodes in mid-air for no reason whatsoever.
Evil Is Hammy: The Mayflowers are perhaps the most ludicrously hammy villains of all time.
Exactly What It Says on the Tin: When they're introduced, all Candy Bars are eating or displaying a candy bar of their Code Name's sort.
Famous Last Words:
Before his time bomb explodes, Snickers takes the time to voice his opinion on it: "Maybe it was a dud."
Kaplan yells "MY PENSION!!!" before he and Darwin's limousine are sent over the cliff and the resulting explosion from the limo kills him.
Fantastic Catholicism:
The "Vatican Organization" that Anna works for, a pseudo-CIA for the Church.
Also, "Catholic girls are scary."
Fast-Roping: This is how Kit Kat makes his first appearance.
Faux Affably Evil: Darwin and Minerva Mayflower.
Darwin: What can I say? I'm the villain.
The Foreign Subtitle: Varied versions of "The Master Thief" was added to the title abroad.
Grievous Bottley Harm: Tommy smashes a bottle of champagne over the head of one of the Mario Brothers when they try to rough up Hawk in a Bar Fight.
Groin Attack
While Eddie is secured to a chair, an aggressive dog bites his crotch.
After Eddie is knocked down by Butterfingers inside a phone booth, he kicks him in the groin. Butterfingers is fine a minute later.
Alfred the Butler presses his blade against Eddie's genitals as a threat.
Darwin: Come to think of it, there is a part of your body that you won't be needing for your next job.
And towards the end, Eddie kicks Alfred in the groin just before he decapitates the latter.
Hammerspace: One of the villains cuts open the cover of Da Vinci's codex to reveal that the book cover, which was approximately a quarter inch thick, contains a piece of the gold machine reflector which is about the size of a billiard ball.
Heel–Face Door-Slam: Once Kit Kat is shot by the Mayflowers, he unties Anna and gives her a card saying "I always liked you" before he dies.
Heterosexual Life-Partners: Eddie and Tommy seem to be a May-December version of this.
High-Voltage Death: Darwin gets electrocuted when Hawk short-circuits the machine's control panel.
Hoist by His Own Petard:
Snickers's second time bomb gets stuck on his head and soon explodes. "He's about to have a bad migrane," indeed.
Eddie blows Almond Joy's paralyzing dart into her throat.
Alfred gets decapitated by his own knives.
Hollywood Glass Cutter: While breaking into the auction house, Eddie uses a suction cup device to cut out a hole in a glass door. It's large enough that he and Tommy Five-Tone can slip inside.
Hollywood Nuns: Inverted, as we only see Anna in a habit once. Because she's undercover as... a chaste Catholic girl who works at the Vatican.
Human Mail
Eddie wakes up in a packing material shipping crate in another country after being rendered unconscious.
Hawk later uses this to sneak into the Vatican Museum for the second robbery.
Improbable Aiming Skills: Eddie manages to toss exact change into a toll road meter while careening down the highway on a gurney.
Improvised Zipline: While robbing the Vatican, Eddie throws a rope (with a grappling hook on the end) from the top of a building across a street. He then slides down the rope to escape.
Instant Sedation
Eddie drops like a sack of potatoes just seconds after drinking a cappuccino that tastes a bit too much like ethyl chloride.
Anna, Eddie and Tommy are paralyzed instantly by Almond Joy's curare-tipped blowgun darts. Subverted by Eddie and Tommy, who somehow recover within minutes and paralyze Almond Joy.
Intergenerational Friendship: Tommy and Eddie are some of the closest friends imaginable despite the former clearly being much older than the latter.
Intimidation Demonstration: Just before Eddie's final battle against Alfred the butler, Alfred snaps out his blades and swings them around in a threatening manner to let Eddie know just what he's up against.
Ironic Echo: "Bunny...ball ball." Said by Hawk as a Pre-Mortem One-Liner as he gets ready to blast the villains' dog out a window with a tennis ball launcher.
I Was Just Joking: Darwin jokes about killing two of their goons, causing Minerva to immediately execute them. They laugh it off by dancing.
Kick the Dog:
Hawk gets his second attempt at trying a capucchino ruined by one of the Mario Brothers blasting the cup to pieces with a silenced pistol and playfully taunting him when he looks around to see what did that.
Darwin leaves Tommy to die towards the end of the film and taunts Eddie over it.
Knuckle Tattoos: Kit Kat has them.
Leaning on the Fourth Wall: When Darwin translates "Macchine d'Oro" into English, he adds a sarcastic "for those at home."
Look Behind You: Averted: "Now, George, you don't expect me to fall for that old gag, do you?"
Master of Disguise: Kit Kat is known to use disguises to impersonate other citizens.
Master of Unlocking: Hawk is an expert at this, which is why all of the bad guys try their damnedest to force him to steal for them.
Meaningful Name: Butterfinger is clumsy.
Murder Is the Best Solution: Minerva shoots two goons after Darwin jokes about killing them.
Naughty Nuns: Not that naughty, but Anna, a nun, certainly thinks flirting with Eddie is a guilty pleasure.
Neutral Female: Subverted. Anna does free herself. And, during the fight with Alfred at the end, she does try to help Eddie. Unfortunately, her aim sucks, but, to be fair, she is a nun, and therefore probably not particularly experienced in the operation of firearms.
Nice Hat: To Eddie at least, as realizing that it has fallen off his head is what allows him to break free from the involuntary movements that Kaplan had him locked in.
Nobody Here but Us Statues: Kit Kat disguises himself as a Greek statue in the castle.
No-Sell:
Almond Joy is not afraid of Anna with a gun.
Hudson is almost unfazeable.
Darwin: I'll kill your friends, your family, and that bitch you took to the prom!
Hudson: Betty Jo Biarsky? I can get you an address on that one.
Butterfinger, when Minerva shoots him with the double crossbow. He looks mostly just confused. Confounded, she shoots him again, but he spits out a little blood, then walks out into the hallway to talk to Kaplan before finally collapsing.
Butterfinger handles a fight with Hawk pretty well until the latter resorts to a Groin Attack.
Novelization: By Geoffrey Marsh. Shockingly, for a novelization of a film that was being rewritten as it was made, the book is incredibly faithful to the final product, aside from including the deleted subplot about Kaplan killing Hawk's pet monkey Little Eddie.
Offstage Villainy: The third robbery takes place offscreen by the main villians after Hawk is arrested when Tommy fakes his death as part of their plan to escape the Mayflowers.
Off with His Head!: Alfred gets sliced by his own knives after Hudson outsmarts him.
Oh, Crap!:
Eddie and Tommy when Almond Joy and Snickers inform them that they have 5 seconds to defuse the time bombs after their paralysis wears off and later when they realize that the time bomb on Snickers's forehead is about to explode.
Kit Kat when he gets shot by the Mayflowers.
Kaplan and Tommy have a collective moment of horror when they are about to be sent over the cliff along with the exploding limousine. Tommy makes it alive, while Kaplan doesn't.
Eddie in the auction house, when he realizes he just accidentally called Anna a constipated warthog.
Eddie again, while Anna is inspecting the fake Sforza and makes a face.
Only Known by Their Nickname:
Eddie Hawkins, who's called "Hudson Hawk" by everyone except Tommy Five-Tone.
We never learn the real names of the Candy Bars.
Percussive Maintenance: The Pope's attempt to fix a malfunctioning TV by hitting it with a staff.
Poisoned Weapons: Almond Joy's curare-tipped blowgun darts, which she uses to knock Anna, Hudson and Tommy.
Pokémon Speak: The only sounds that Igg and Ook make in the film is when they die, when they groan "Igg!" and "Ook!", respectively.
Pretty Little Headshots: Igg and Oook receive them.
Psychopathic Manchild: Butterfinger is a murderous CIA agent with the mind of a child.
Punctuated Pounding: Tommy Five Tone to Darwin Mayflower.
Put Their Heads Together: During the auction house robbery, Eddie and Tommy Five-Tone are surprised by two guards. After Tommy uses a rope to trip them, Eddie knocks their heads together to render them unconscious so he can handcuff them.
Quirky Miniboss Squad: The Candy Bars, the Mayflowers' mooks who have candy bar-themed codenames.
Raised Catholic:
Anna states her Catholicism as the reason she won't shoot Almond Joy. And why Hudson is not allowed in her bed. And why she loves Butterfinger, in a weird Catholic way.
Hudson went to Catholic school, so he is conveniently also Raised Catholic. Which might have been a problem for him and Anna's future. That, and her vows of chastity...
Realistic Diction Is Unrealistic: Of the overlapping kind: Tommy and Anna talk over each other after the Tommy-Hudson fight scene.
Reality Has No Subtitles
While Hudson is making a phone call in Italy, the operator speaks to him in Italian several times before turning him over to the AT&T overseas operator. None of her statements are translated.
While Hudson is ordering food at a restaurant he speaks in Italian. At the end of the order he asks for some ketchup and the waiter walks away complaining about the uncultured American. None of their Italian dialogue is subtitled.
Reality Is Unrealistic: The "Da Vinci Codex" is a misnomer, as there are at least 5 codices of Da Vinci's. The one in the film is neither; it is a composite of two recognizable Da Vinci works: the Vitruvian Man on one side, which was never in a codex, and the Study on Muscles on the other, which are among the Windsor Folios. No such codex exists. Nor is there a Da Vinci codex in the Vatican Museum.
Redundant Rescue: Anna. "I got bored, so I saved myself."
Religion Is Magic: Spoofed.
Hawk: The Vatican! I'm robbing the freaking Vatican! The Sisters at St. Agnes' predicted this.
Rogue Agent: Kaplan and his minions are ex-CIA agents who went rogue.
Rule of Cool: When Eddie and his partner have to synchronize their actions to pull off a heist, do they use their wristwatches? No ... they sing show tunes. While sneaking around inside an occupied building.
Rule of Funny: This movie runs with it and the tank is filled baby!
Rule of Three: Hudson takes on three heists.
Subverted: Only two of Hudson's heists are with Tommy, thus only two capers have the "trademark" synchronized singing. Meanwhile, a fourth heist is done offscreen by Kaplan's crew.
Running Gag
Eddie can't get an unadulterated cappuccino to save his life. At least, not until the very end. By that point, he's earned it.
Tommy comes to prison to pick him up with a cappuccino in a take-away cup. Before he can have a taste, Tommy has to slam on the brakes, spilling the drink.
At the Five-Tone, Eddie gets one bar-slid to him... only to have it shot out from under his nose by one of the Mario Brothers.
After the auction-house job, Eddie decides to make one himself... and the machine shorts out.
Eddie gets served one at Anna's place after their date... too bad it tastes too much like ethyl chlorate.
And if you want to be technical about it, he's not seen drinking that last cappuccino either: the movie freeze-frames just before he takes a sip.
He actually does finally drink it. The freeze frame is him tossing the cup over his shoulder after drinking.
The Candy Bars and Kaplan always appear out of nowhere, unexpected and wearing whatever weird clothes they thought about, sometimes trying to fit in, sometimes definitely not.
Kit Kat only "speaks" via pre-printed cards. He also often dresses as the other characters; once as Hudson, once as Anna, and he also disguised himself as a living statue in the castle.
The Series Has Left Reality: The film is realistic up to the point where Eddie and Tommy Five-Tone jump off the building and Eddie ends up falling into a chair in the Mario Brothers' apartment (Tommy ends up back at the bar), with no explanation whatsoever. The movie has a number of reality-defying scenes after that.
Sidekick Song: Played with in that the caper-timing songs double as these.
Slashed Throat: The Battle Butler dishes these out.
Shout-Out: The locks on the Mayflowers' electronic handcuffs play the ring tone from the Flint Phone in Our Man Flint. Considering James Coburn's in this one, not terribly inappropriate.
Before drinking Anna's coffee with ethyl chloride, Hudson quotes Casablanca:
Hawk: Here's looking at you, kid.
Slipping a Mickey: ...Yeah.
Hawk: Hey, this doesn't taste like cappuccino.
Anna: Oh. I guess I put too much ethyl chloride in it.
Speak of the Devil: When Gates is talking about Alfred, and the latter immediately enters. A subverted Inadvertent Entrance Cue. Also provides an Answer Cut. (Pun not intended.)
Spraying Drink from Nose: In the scene where Eddie and Tommy are paralyzed by curare, they make a number of funny statements while one of their captors (named Butterfinger) is drinking something. He starts laughing and tells them "You made it come out of my nose."
Staged Shooting: Hawk shooting Tommy in a brawl.
Taken for Granite: During the finale, Minerva gets turned into gold due to the machine's sabotage.
Minerva actually gets coated in Bronze, making it a Brick Joke from the prologue (Hawk's sabotage of the crystal assembly makes the machine do what Da Vinci was trying to accomplish at the begining).
Tap on the Head
When Eddie first meets the CIA Candy Bars, Kaplan punches him in the face and knocks him out. Eddie falls backward into a box full of styrofoam peanuts.
While Eddie and Tommy are infiltrating Leonardo da Vinci's castle, they lure two guards over to them and knock each of them out with one punch.
Theme Naming: The CIA people are code-named after candy bars; apparently before that, they tried diseases.
Almond Joy: Do you know what it's like to be called "Chlamydia" for a whole year?
Theme Twin Naming: Eddie jokingly asks of the identical twin mooks tasked with following him around, "What do they call you guys? Igg and Ook?" They are credited as such.
Threat Backfire
Darwin Mayflower: I'll kill your friends, your family, and the bitch you took to the prom!
Hudson Hawk: Betty Jo Biarski? I can get you an address on that if you want.
Time Bomb: The rockets, with one case of Delayed Explosion.
Time for Plan B:
After Hawk and Tommy jump off a balcony:
Minerva: Plan B, George.
Kaplan: ...Plan B!
Also when Kaplan and Butterfinger are trying to find a way out of the castle, but things keep blowing up each way they pick.
Toll Booth Antics: The titular character is in an out of control ambulance gurney. He manages to get one arm loose so he can toss change into the toll booth so he can keep careening out of control because the bad guys are after him.
Trip Trap: During the theft of the Sforza (horse statue), two guards go after Eddie and Tommy. Tommy runs to one side and pulls on a rope, causing the guards to trip on it and fall down.
Unexplained Recovery: Lampshaded in the most hilarious way.
Eddie: You're supposed to be all cracked up at the bottom of the hill!
Tommy: Air bags! Can you fucking believe it?
Eddie: You're supposed to be blown up into fiery chunks of flesh!
Tommy: Sprinkler system set up in the back! can you fucking believe it!?
Eddie: Yyyyeah! That's...probably what happened!
Unholy Matrimony: The Mayflowers are a marriage of supercriminals.
Unwanted Assistance: Former This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Trope Namer for the old "Stop Helping Me!" trope: Anna decides to pick up a gun and help Hudson during his fight with Alfred. Unfortunately, she's not the best markswoman in the world.
Villain's Dying Grace: Kit-Kat helps Anna escape from her bindings after being betrayed and mortally wounded.
The Voiceless:
Kit Kat only communicates through preprinted cards. "MY NAME IS KIT KAT THIS IS NOT A DREAM"
Also Igg and Ook until they get shot whereupon for some reason each cries his own name.
Why We Are Bummed Communism Fell:
Given George Kaplan's ex-CIA, it's not surprising he's awfully bummed about it.
George Kaplan: Ah, Rome. I did my first bare-handed strangulation here. Communist politician.
Hudson Hawk: Why, George, you big softie.
George Kaplan: God, I miss communism. The Red Threat! People were scared, the Agency had some respect, and I got laid every night!
About his new, young crew:
George Kaplan: Punks! They think that the Bay of Pigs is a herbal tea, and the Cold War has something to do with penguins.
World of Ham: The entire cast (sans James Coburn) seems to be engaging in a scenery-chewing competition, especially Bruce Willis and Richard E. Grant.
Actually James Coburn is hamming it up quite well.
George Kaplan: MY PENSION!
George Kaplan: God, I miss communism. The Red Threat! People were scared, the Agency had some respect, and I got laid every night!
Writers Cannot Do Math: The movie is very obviously meant to be set in the year it was released (1991), but is said to take place exactly 500 years after 1481.
Wrong Restaurant: The Candy Bars are ordering dinner at a restaurant in Italy. Butterfinger, who is very stupid, orders a steakburger and french fries because he thinks they're in France.
You Have Outlived Your Usefulness: The Mayflowers kill off all of their goons, including the CIA agents.

Manga / Hozuki-san Chi no Aneki
Hozuki-san Chi no Aneki (The Hozuki Brother and Older Sister) is a 4-koma crack comedy by Igarashi Ran, about the wacky day-to-day life and interactions of the Hozuki siblings. It was serialized in Young Ace magazine from 2009 to 2011.
Life for highschool student Hozuki Gorou is anything but easy. His attractive older step-sister Haru aggressively flirts with him, lies to him, and humiliates him in every way she can think of. However, he does have a crush on her, which nonetheless causes even more trouble for him.
A sequel began serialization in the April 2014 issue of Young Ace titled Hozuki-san Chi no Aneki + Imouto, seemingly taking place at the end of Gorou's last year of high school/shortly before college exams. As the title says, Haru's cousin, Aoi, one year younger than Gorou, comes to live with them as their imouto (little sister). The sex is turned up in this series, especially by Aoi.

Literature / Justice Squad
Justice Squad is a Web Serial Novel that follows the adventures of a team of superheroes as they try to save the world from all sorts of strange and kooky dangers.
Essentially, a satire of the then-current animated Superhero shows, written in Script Format to better imitate the medium.
A Spin-Off of The Liam Smith Show, itself a satire on the traditional sitcom.
Consisting of five "seasons" of episodes, as well as annual 'movies', it is now complete, having ran from 2002 through 2007.

Film / The Wizard of Gore
An existentialist Gorn movie by Herschell Gordon Lewis, previously known for Blood Feast, A Taste of Blood, and The Gruesome Twosome, The Wizard of Gore follows Sherry Carson, a TV Show host, and her fiance, Jack, as they try to unravel the mystery of Montag the Magnificent, a stage magician whose volunteers wind up dead after the show in a fashion identical to their on-stage "death".
The special effects were horrifically bloody for their time but have not aged well. The acting is amateurish. The movie delights in Shocking Swerve after Shocking Swerve. But overall, it is not an experience to be missed.
In 2007, a remake was made with Crispin Glover in the role of Montag the Magnificent

Music / From the Cradle
From the Cradle is the fourteenth studio album by Eric Clapton, released in 1994.
Intended as a love letter to 1950s bluesmen, the album was designed to recreate the originals with a "live-in-studio" gimmick behind Clapton, whose vocals also mimicked the original performances.
Coming on the heels of the guitarist's runaway MTV Unplugged success, From the Cradle topped the Billboard charts and ran off with the "Best Traditional Blues Recording" Grammy despite mixed reviews. Even supportive critics like George Starostin (who oddly asserts it as Clapton's best album) complained about the contrived vocals; on the flip side, however, even harsher critics were full of praise for the guitar work.

Western Animation / Steven Universe
"We... are the Crystal Gems, we'll always save the day,
and if you think we can't, we'll always find a way!
That's why the people of this world believe in
Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl - AND STEVEN!"
— The theme song
Steven Universe is a Cartoon Network show from Rebecca Sugar, an Adventure Time alum and author of Pug Davis. It is the network's first series to be created and headed solely by a woman and an openly LGBT individual.note 
Debuting on TV on November 4th, 2013, the series follows the Coming of Age adventures of a boy named Steven, the youngest of the Crystal Gems, a team of magical crystalline aliens. Steven may not be as powerful or savvy as the other Crystal Gems, and he may not have much control over his powers, but that doesn't stop him from joining Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl on their magical adventures and finding a way to save the day. As the story continues, Steven starts to find out what exactly they're saving the day from, and the plot comes to encompass much more than just one sleepy beach town...
Steven Universe has had a (non-canon) Crossover episode with — of all shows — Uncle Grandpa. Garnet also featured in two episodes of OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes, first as one of the main characters in the episode "Crossover Nexus" and then as a cameo appearance in that show's finale.
The show ended after five seasons with the one-hour episode, "Change Your Mind", on January 21, 2019. A Made-for-TV Movie taking place two years after its events, entitled Steven Universe: The Movie, aired later that year on September 2. The series and movie were then succeeded by Steven Universe: Future, a 20-episode epilogue miniseries that began on December 7, 2019, and ended on March 27, 2020.
The series has a substantial amount of spin-off media detailed on the Franchise page.
There is a recap page, as well as a Best Episode Crowner.
Warning: Unmarked spoilers ahead. Proceed at your own risk!

Western Animation / Steven Universe: The Movie
Steven
Have you heard the tale of
(Have you heard the tale of)
Steven
Always putting others first
Can you imagine it
Ever compassionate
Steven Universe!
— "The Tale of Steven"
Steven Universe: The Movie is a Made-for-TV Movie based on the Cartoon Network animated series Steven Universe.
First announced at San Diego Comic Con 2018, the film would see an early screening at The Theatre at Ace Hotel on August 26th, 2019, before seeing its television premiere on September 2nd, 2019 at 6 PM without any commercial breaks.
Two years after the events of the series finale, Steven has finished his work dismantling the remnants of the Gem Empire and returns home to Earth, believing that his time defending the planet is over and that he can finally relax. However, when a mysterious Gem lands in Beach City with a weapon that threatens to kill all organic life on Earth, he'll face his biggest challenge yet.
Alongside the 82-minute-long movie's premiere was the release of its official soundtrack. The film was released on DVD on November 12, 2019, with a vinyl version of the soundtrack containing an additional eight demo tracks being released a few days later. A 96-page art book was released March 2020, featuring character designs, storyboards, and more about how the movie came into being. The movie would be followed by Steven Universe: Future, a miniseries taking place shortly after the film and which serves as the epilogue for the franchise.
The official trailer can be viewed here and the Toonami trailer can be viewed here. The official website, a rarity for a series from Cartoon Network, can be accessed here.

Western Animation / Steven Universe: Future
Here we are in the future and it's bright!
I can't believe we've come so far!
Steven Universe Future, here we are!
Steven Universe Future~
- Theme Song
Steven Universe: Future is a 20-episode Cartoon Network action/adventure Mini Series created by Rebecca Sugar. Serving as an extended epilogue to the original series and television movie, Future premiered on December 7th, 2019 and ended on March 27th, 2020, with a four-part finale.
It has been a few months since the events of the film; the universe has finally been freed from the tyrannical rule of the Gem Empire and the Earth is now officially considered an independent planet. With new endeavors in place to acclimate Gems to the brand new status quo, including a small community just outside Beach City known as Little Homeworld, a now 16-year-old Steven Universe aims to continue helping everyone as best he can in the new age of Era 3.
However, Steven has overlooked one thing: with all the major, world-threatening issues having been laid to rest, and many of his friends now comfortably moving forward in their own lives, no one actually needs our hero to help them anymore. As Steven enters adulthood and runs out of other people's problems to solve, he finds himself realizing that the only ones left are his own. From lingering mother issues, the surprise development of new Diamond abilities, and his general uncertainty about what the future holds, Steven discovers that even the savior of the universe has some challenges to overcome and lessons to learn in the midst of "happily ever after".

Characters / Steven Universe — Steven Quartz Universe
Steven is the lovable, half-human and half-Gem boy who is still figuring out how to harness his powers from the Gem he inherited from his mother. He's goofy, energetic and optimistic, yet takes his role as a Crystal Gem seriously, learning all his lessons, and taking his discipline with good humor when the situation calls for it. He is very much in touch with his emotions and does not shy away from saying how he feels. He is as impulsive as any other boy his age might be, but counts on his Gem family to keep him safe.

Characters / Steven Universe — Garnet
Garnet is the de facto leader of the Crystal Gems, having taken over after the departure of Rose Quartz. She's a powerful, strong and disciplined warrior, and is the Gems' unarmed combat expert. A Gem of few words, Garnet is the most aloof member of the team; however, when she does speak, everyone listens. She is usually very introspective, but living with Steven, she is beginning to come out of her shell a little.

Characters / Steven Universe — Amethyst
Amethyst is the youngest of the Crystal Gems (not counting Steven) and the resident Wild Child of the team. She loves to instigate pranks and act ridiculous even in the face of danger, which can sometimes result in innocents like Steven getting caught in the middle of her antics. Her behavior is the most human-like of the group (having been "born" on Earth) and she has happily adopted human customs like eating and sleeping (neither of which Gems actually need to do). She often chafes under the discipline of the two older Gems. As the series progresses, her rebellious, moody attitude is revealed to stem from an inferiority complex she feels when compared to her teammates, including Steven.

Characters / Steven Universe — Pearl
A perfectionist and intellectual strategist, Pearl is the mental powerhouse of the Gems. She strives for structure and logic and gets easily flustered when things don't go as planned. She is driven to keep things orderly, and is most protective of Steven. The slightest hint of endangering Rose's son will immediately result in Pearl seeking to get him to safety. She also is a little nervous, has some trouble speaking emotionally when others are upset, and is a little quietly resentful that her strengths are not ones Steven considers admirable.

Characters / Steven Universe — Rose Quartz
Rose Quartz was the founder and previous leader of the Crystal Gems. She found Amethyst and brought her into the group. About sixteen years before the series began, she met and fell in love with Greg Universe. She became pregnant with Steven, but since the holder of the magic gem can only be one person, Rose, as Greg puts it, "gave up her physical form to bring Steven into the world". Although she could fight as well as any Gem, she was full of love and compassion for every living thing she ever encountered.

Characters / Steven Universe — Connie Maheswaran
Steven's supportive, good-natured best friend. Due to her father's work as a security guard, she traveled around frequently with her family, until they moved to a town near Beach City. As a result, Connie didn't have any friends until she met Steven at a local parade, a year prior to the series. Steven saved her glow bracelet before even meeting her officially. Her real introduction comes in "Bubble Buddies", when he protects her from falling rocks, accidentally leaving them in a shield bubble. After their adventure, the two become inseparable good friends. While she's not always around to participate in Steven's life with the Crystal Gems, she does so with enthusiasm when the opportunity arises.

Characters / Steven Universe — Peridot
A former Homeworld technician of Yellow Diamond's court and the Crystal Gems' main recurring arch-nemesis for the first two seasons, Peridot Facet-2F5L Cut-5XG was sent from Homeworld to check on the progress of the Cluster, but her mission was thwarted by the Crystal Gems and she was left stranded on Earth. With nowhere else to go, she decided to help the Crystal Gems destroy the Cluster and, after a series of humbling experiences, she slowly became fond of the Gems and curious about Earth. After failing to convince her superior to spare Earth, Peridot completely defected from Homeworld to become a full-fledged Crystal Gem in "Message Received".

Characters / Steven Universe — Lapis Lazuli
A Gem formerly of Blue Diamond's court with water-manipulating powers that was once poofed by Bismuth, and trapped in a mirror after being mistaken with a Crystal Gem during the war, and used as a tool for around 5,000 years, but fortunately she was set free by Steven. Her release was the focus of "Mirror Gem" and "Ocean Gem". She used to despise Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl for forgetting she was trapped in a mirror and for being the reason why Homeworld mistook her for a Crystal Gem, but after her liberation in "Super Watermelon Island", she has more or less put her resentment of them aside for the time being. She loves and respects Steven and has become fiercely protective of him after freeing her. While originally extremely fearful of the prospect of being caught up in another war, after forming bonds with the others and coming to see the Earth as her home, she officially joined the Crystal Gems.

Characters / Steven Universe — Yellow Diamond
The first Diamond to be mentioned and the second to make an appearance. She commands Homeworld's military, is in charge of the Cluster geo-weapon project, and the yellow Gem depicted on the mural from "Serious Steven". She briefly appears in the extended theme song, and premieres properly in "Message Received".

Characters / Steven Universe — Blue Diamond
The second Diamond mentioned, and the first to appear in the series proper in "The Answer". She was at the Sky Arena during Rose's rebellion, and Sapphire used to report directly to her. She commands Homeworld's court system, leads Homeworld's diplomatic Gems, and is the blue Gem depicted on the mural from "Serious Steven".

Characters / Steven Universe — Pink Diamond
The youngest Diamond and the third mentioned in the series, prior to her appearance she initially was only inferred due to differences in symbols in the background of various episodes — older Gem locations have a symbol with white, blue, yellow, and pink Diamonds forming a larger diamond, newer ones have a triangular arrangement of white, blue, and yellow triangles. The third season confirms that she did exist, was the ruler of Earth when it was a Gem colony, and that Rose Quartz allegedly shattered her to liberate the Earth. The fifth season reveals what her relationship with the other Diamonds was like, and shows the true circumstances behind her supposed shattering.

Characters / Steven Universe — White Diamond
The last of the Diamonds to appear, and the last to be mentioned by name. She is the supreme ruler of the Gem Homeworld, and is the oldest and most powerful Diamond.
As the majority of White Diamond's characterization occurs in the closing episodes of season five, ALL spoilers will be left unmarked. You Have Been Warned!

Characters / Steven Universe — Jasper
A warrior from the Gem Homeworld who fought against Rose Quartz's army more than 5,750 years ago. She returns to Earth as Peridot's escort, and later reveals herself to be formerly of Pink Diamond's Court.

Characters / Steven Universe — Spinel
The main antagonist of Steven Universe: The Movie, a pink Gem with long, rubbery limbs. She holds a deep grudge against Steven for some reason and wants to perform a Happy Ending Override by destroying him and all organic life on Earth with a giant injector.
In truth, though, her grudge lies with Steven's mother, Pink Diamond (a.k.a. Rose Quartz), as Spinel was created to be her playmate. Now, she seeks revenge on Steven because his mother abandoned her 6,000 years ago when she first got her colony on Earth.

Characters / Steven Universe — Greg Universe
Greg Universe (formerly Gregory DeMayo) was a one man band. He didn't have much success, but seems happy enough in his simple life. Rose Quartz fell in love with him, and they had Steven together (though she had to give up her physical form for her son to be born, as only one living being can be attached to the gem at a time). While Steven lives at the temple with the Gems, Greg lives out of his van as a reminder of his prime and owns Beach City's car wash: It's A Wash. He loves his son dearly, and the two of them hang out quite often, sharing their musical talents.

Characters / Steven Universe — Lars Barriga
Lars was a slacker that worked at the Big Donut. Initially a sullen, angry teen, getting stranded on Homeworld gave him the kick in the pants needed to seriously better himself, going from someone you wouldn't trust to watch a pot boil to the confident, commanding leader of the Off Colors, in turn leading them to becoming actual criminals of Homeworld rather than just criminals by circumstance in their quest for Earth. After arriving back home, Lars is much more open and honest, and even follows his passion for cooking by opening a bakery, before eventually returning to space to heed the call of adventure.

Characters / Steven Universe — Sadie Miller
Sadie was a clerk at the Big Donut. She's supportive of Steven's adventures, if weirded out by the other Gems, and had a crush on Lars. Eventually, after Lars' Alien Abduction, the stress of working alone really got to her, leading her to quit her job and join the Cool Kids in a band known as "Sadie Killer and the Suspects". They toured for two and a half years —along the way Sadie met Shep and began a relationship with them— before the band decided to part ways, with Sadie staying in the music business and becoming a musical duo with Shep.

Western Animation / Gravity Falls
"Unfortunately, my suspicions have been confirmed. I'm being watched. I must hide this book before He finds it.
Remember— in Gravity Falls, there is no one you can trust."
For one whole summer vacation, twins Dipper and Mabel Pines are sent to visit their great-unclenote  Stan in the valley town of Gravity Falls, Oregon, where he owns the Mystery Shack, "the world's most bizarre museum". Dipper and Mabel's situation worsens (or rather, improves) when Dipper finds a mysterious book, the cover bearing an insignia of a six-fingered hand marked with the number "3". Upon opening it, he discovers that it is a Great Big Book of Everything, explaining the many strange beings, past events, and even federal cover-ups that exist within this town of secrecy — all cut through with an urgent warning: Trust No One! Thus begins Dipper and Mabel's adventures as they interact with the supernatural world that surrounds them, all while following a Myth Arc where Dipper tries to find the journal's mysterious author.
Gravity Falls is an animated Disney Channel Original Series created by Alex Hirsch and produced by Rob Renzetti. It premiered on June 29, 2012.After the Season 1 finale, the series went on a year-long hiatus. Several mini-series of short films were released over the break to keep fans satisfied. Season 2 premiered on August 1, 2014, a year after Season 1. The series was rebranded as a Disney XD original series, with episodes premiering on that network first before airing later on Disney Channel. On November 20, 2015, Alex Hirsch announced that Season 2 would be the final season, with the Grand Finale airing February 15, 2016, as a one-hour special. Hirsch has since stated he remains open to the idea of continuing the series with additional episodes or specials, and he delivered with Gravity Falls: Lost Legends, a comic book anthology released sometime after the series' run.
A DVD/Blu-ray of the complete series was released on July 24, 2018 from Shout! Factory, making it the first Disney animated series to receive such a release. You can vote for your favorite episode here.
"Bewarb" of spoilers.

Characters / Gravity Falls Dipper Pines
Dipper is a curious, clever, inventive 12-year-old. With his (older) twin sister Mabel along for the ride, he dares to uncover the secrets of Gravity Falls. He represents the pine tree on the Zodiac.

Characters / Gravity Falls Mabel Pines
Dipper's quirky, intuitive, creative, energetic, and optimistic twin sister. Mabel makes the best out of every situation with a big smile while also playfully annoying her brother. She represents the shooting star on the Zodiac.

Characters / Gravity Falls Grunkle Stan
Stan Pines, also known as Great-Uncle Stan and Grunkle Stan, is Mabel and Dipper's humorous, sly, money-loving great-uncle. He runs the Mystery Shack, a tourist trap full of questionable oddities. He represents the fish-shaped symbol on the Zodiac.

Characters / Gravity Falls: The Author
An enigmatic figure who researched in Gravity Falls years ago prior to Dipper and Mabel's summer vacation, and is responsible for writing the three journals that catalog and explain the supernatural creatures and phenomena that exist in the town, some of which he had a hand in creating. His fate and identity are the biggest mysteries the Mystery Twins aim to decipher. About halfway through season two, his identity is revealed as Stanford "Ford" Pines, Grunkle Stan's twin brother. He represents the six-fingered hand on the Zodiac.

Characters / Gravity Falls Bill Cipher
A dangerous interdimensional dream demon that was summoned by Gideon in his efforts to take over the Mystery Shack. Bill Cipher is the true main antagonist of the series who works behind the scenes in the first season, becomes prominent in the second season, and (potentially) exists in a meta level than the rest of the show's cast. He is a jovial and sadistic trickster who makes devilish deals to get what he wants, and claims that something big will soon change the world...

Western Animation / Adventure Time
"Adventure Time!
Come on, grab your friends
We'll go to very distant lands
With Jake the Dog and Finn the Human
The fun will never end, it's Adventure Time!"
What time is it? Describe Adventure Time time!
Adventure Timenote  began life as a seven-minute short created by Pendleton Ward, produced to be a part of Random! Cartoons on Nickelodeon. Originally meant to premiere in Fall 2007, the animated variety show was delayed from public airing until December 2008. However, the short itself was shown solo on Nicktoons in early 2007, at which point it quickly went viral on the Internet.
Why? Because it's really frickin' weird, that's why.
Both the original short and subsequent series feature the adventures of two best friends: Jake the Dog and Finn the Human (Pen the Human in the original short) who explore and fight evil in the land of Ooo. Their adventures are nonsensical, crazy, and bear more resemblance to a group of kids playing with action figures, or a particularly baked round of Dungeons & Dragons, than a coherent plot... which is probably why it's so dang fun.
Much like Homestar Runner, it's sort of a cross between a children's show and a parody of a children's show, with these elements still being very much present even after the show took a turn for the darker. Nickelodeon passed on making it into a series twice, but rival Cartoon Network saw its potential and ordered two full seasons off the bat. A preview aired on March 11, 2010, with the show formally beginning its run on April 5th, to the delight of 2.5 million viewers.
Thanks to the massive success of the series, the show has spawned an increasing range of spin-offs in other media, details of which can be found at the Franchise page.
The mathematical production blog, which also features art from fans, is located here. The algebraic wiki is here.
On October 2nd, 2014, Pendleton Ward announced to Rolling Stone that he had quietly stepped down from his position as showrunner during its fifth season due to burnout, though he remained as a storyboard artist, script writer, and voice actor. Adam Muto, who had been involved with Adventure Time since the original pilot, would serve the role of showrunner for the remainder of the series.
On September 29, 2016, after months of erratic airings, Cartoon Network announced on Twitter that the show would end in 2018; which it did on September 3, 2018, with the hour-long series finale "Come Along With Me" airing after an all-day marathon of the show's most popular episodes. With an eight-year run, Adventure Time is the fourth longest-running series on Cartoon Network, and at 283 produced episodes, is surpassed only by the Ben 10 franchise in episode count. Combine that with the amount of merchandise and other media spinoffs the work has garnered, it's probably fair to describe Adventure Time as one of Cartoon Network's great success stories.
After the finale, a comic book series entitled Adventure Time: Season 11 was released. Meant to be an unofficial 12-issue epilogue, it only lasted six issues due to not meeting sales expectations. Accompanying Season 11 was another miniseries, Marcy and Simon, which did manage to conclude its run and ended the latter's character arc.
On October 2019, Cartoon Network announced an official follow-up in Adventure Time: Distant Lands, a sequel miniseries composed of four hour-long episodes each centering on different members of the main cast. The series premiered on HBO Max on June 25, 2020.
The Recap page is in need of more love.
The Crowners for Best Episode and Biggest Complaint.

Characters / Adventure Time Finn
The intrepid human boy and and one of the two lead characters of the series. Hyperactive with a love of adventure and good deeds. That thing on his head is actually a hat. Originally 12 years old, he gets older as the series progresses. Yet, he looks no different.

Characters / Adventure Time Jake
Finn's chummy, size-shifting bulldog friend (not pet) and foster-brother. He is more laid back than Finn, but also enjoys adventure. He sometimes gives Finn brotherly advice, but it is not often helpful.

Characters / Adventure Time The Lich
An undead sorcerer who is supposedly Ooo's greatest evil. He has an army of the living dead and vast magical powers. He was defeated and sealed away in amber inside of a great tree by the legendary hero Billy. Not a funny character at all. Originally called the Lich King, renamed to avoid confusion with that other guy.
In season 5, it was revealed that he's connected to the nuclear radiation released from a bomb used in the Mushroom War. Season 6 goes further by implying he was born from an incarnation of the Catalyst Comet that wiped out the dinosaurs millions of years ago. The final episodes strongly hint that both the green Catalyst Comet and the bombs used in the Mushroom War were made of GOLB's breath.
In "Finn the Human" an Alternate Timeline is created where the bomb wasn't detonated in an attempt to keep the Lich from existing. Unfortunately a series of events in "Jake the Dog" leads to the bomb detonating 600 years later in the present day, creating a new Lich from Jake.

Western Animation / BoJack Horseman
"It doesn't matter what we did in the past, or how we’ll be remembered. The only thing that matters is this moment, this one spectacular moment we are sharing together."
— BoJack Horseman
BoJack Horseman is an animated black comedy-drama series created by Raphael Bob-Waksberg for Netflix as the service's first animated original program. The series premiered on August 22, 2014, and stars an Ensemble Cast which includes Will Arnett, Amy Sedaris, Alison Brie, Paul F. Tompkins, and Aaron Paul.
Set In a World... where Funny Animals coexist with humans, the titular BoJack Horseman (Arnett) was previously the star of a popular sitcom in The '90s called Horsin' Around. Now a washed-up actor, BoJack navigates a return to the Hollywoo (sic) limelight, only to end up confronting his personal demons in the process. Accompanying him on his journey are his deadbeat roommate Todd Chavez (Paul), his agent and on-again-off-again girlfriend Princess Carolyn (Sedaris), his sitcom frenemy Mr. Peanutbutter (Tompkins), and his memoir ghostwriter Diane Nguyen (Brie).
The series famously starts out following what is seemingly a typical sitcom format to tell more dramatic stories than has been typical of the genre. It broke the mold of its contemporaries, trading an abundance of shock value, celebrity pot-shots, and frequent cutaways for character-based humor and recurring jokes.
Despite an initially mixed critical response, its first season was popular enough to receive a second one, continuing into the second half of The New '10s and becoming a critical darling. Its sixth and final season aired in two parts, one in October 2019 and the other in January 2020.
The series started airing on Comedy Central in September 2018, making it the first Netflix original series to be syndicated for U.S. cable television. A Blu-ray of the first two seasons was released in 2019, making one of the first Netflix series to receive a non-streaming home video release.
The title character also has a Defictionalized website maintained by the show's creators, as well as a Twitter.
The series has a Recap page and a Best Episode Crowner.

Characters / BoJack Horseman - The Horseman Himself
A misanthropic, bitter and severely depressed horse who once starred in the 90s sitcom Horsin' Around. While he began as a young, bright-eyed actor, he has since become a complete grouch and often wallows in self-pity, committing acts that devastate those around him. BoJack struggles to find happiness in his life and move on from his abusive childhood and long list of dirty deeds.

Characters / Bojack Horseman - Princess Carolyn
An anthropomorphic pink Persian cat who is BoJack's on-and-off girlfriend and who doubles as his agent. An incredibly pragmatic, successful, yet good natured individual, as well as one of the top agents in the agency Vigor, Princess Carolyn prides herself on being able to separate her personal life from her professional life when it comes to dealing with BoJack, for the most part.

Characters / Bojack Horseman - Diane Nguyen
A nerdy, socially awkward writer from Boston, who is Mr. Peanutbutter's girlfriend/wife and BoJack Horseman's good friend. Diane is initally tasked with writing BoJack's memoir, but the two become close throughout, as she spends a lot of time with him and relates to the horse's depression and struggles, as she also suffers similar issues to him.

Characters / Bojack Horseman - Mr. Peanutbutter
A native of the Labrador Peninsula in Canada, Mister Peanutbutter was raised in the countryside as the runt of the litter with his parents and grandma, free of the world's cold touch. Submerged in a saccharine and comfortable sugar bowl where the motto was "Nothing bad ever happens in the Labrador Peninsula", PB grew with the expectation the world was just as light. During a trip to Hollywood, he wandered off against his wife Katrina's objections and stumbled onto the set of Untitled Horsin' Around Ripoff. With his charisma and natural ability, Mister gained the public's favor, taking the role from Vincent D'Onofrio. Money and second rate fame ensued with the newcomer PB helming what henceforth would be called Mr. Peanutbutter's House.
Growing at the shade of the much more famous BoJack Horseman, PB quickly took to being famous, even if he preferred to be a good sport about it, contrasting BJ himself whom he gradually started idolizing and view as a peer in the industry, admiring his work even if he constantly failed to get most of the scorn thrown his way by the horse.

Characters / Bojack Horseman - Todd Chávez
BoJack's slacker roommate. Little does BoJack know, Todd has had run-ins with several gangs including a Mexican drug cartel. Todd may be a freeloader, but BoJack seems to prefer having him around to the point where he would sometimes go to great lengths to keep Todd from moving out. Also likely the only one who DOES love BoJack.
All-Loving Hero: Todd is caring and sweet person who always wants to help. However, his loving nature gets pushed to its limits when dealing with the self-destructive BoJack.
Ambiguously Brown: While in prison he was simultaneously courted by both the Aryan Nation and Latin Kings. In-fact, Raphael Bob-Waksberg, the show's creator, referred to him as "Schrödinger’s Latino". Season 6 reveals that his last name comes from his stepfather, and he identifies himself as white later in the episode.
Asexuality: The end of third season implies that he is on the asexuality spectrum. He begins to identify himself as asexual after talking to BoJack about it during S4E3.
Todd: I'm not gay. I mean, I don't think I am, but... I don't think I'm straight, either. I don't know what I am. I think I might be nothing.
The Baby of the Bunch: Todd is the youngest of the main cast, and thus is the most immature and childish (at least before some Character Development).
Born Lucky: No matter in how many crazy misadventures he ends up involved, Todd will always come out more or less unscathed or not worse for wear. In Season 6, when his stepdad comes to visit, and it's revealed that Todd never plans ahead or applies himself because he knows things will "just always work out" for him, and he just wants to coast through life on his own eternally charmed luck.
Brilliant, but Lazy: Todd has been shown to possess a plethora of skills including an understanding of Japanese, entrepreneurial know-how, and artistic capabilities. Besides having allied with Mr. Peanutbutter for various business ideas, he tried writing and composing his own rock opera, Newtopia Rising, Book I: The Search for a New Utopia. However, his overall laziness and video game addiction often hinders his success.
Character Development: Todd tries to make something of himself and learns to take more risks as opposed to being a shut-in roommate. By season 4 he becomes mostly self-reliant (though he still sleeps on other people's couches), and his knack for helping people reaches nigh-legendary status.
The Chew Toy: Todd can never catch a break. He's been framed for tourist scams he was strong armed into doing, dismissed by his friends at every turn, beaten up by two girls who caught him off-guard and stole his stuff, thrown in the can where he witnesses a very messy murder and ends up in a power play between the Aryans and Latinos that almost ends with him being curb stomped, had his Rock Opera sabotaged...the list just goes on and on.
Did Not Think This Through: While Todd is Unluckily Lucky, most of his hard luck comes from him not thinking through most of his zany schemes and almost suffering the consequences for it, only for his own supernaturally good luck to prevent him from suffering any real harm. For example, in Season 1 he tries to court two separate prison gangs in a "two dates, one prom" scenario, and when it predictably goes south he's only saved from having his arms broken by the prison suddenly bursting open.
Early Installment Weirdness: Todd was initially more down to earth than BoJack, and would snark at how out of touch with a "normal" life BoJack was. It wasn't long before Todd became a full-blown ditz and BoJack became even more snarky and aware of how different he is from other people.
Earn Your Happy Ending: By the time of the Distant Finale, Todd has reconnected and reconciled with his mother and stepfather, has an actual, stable job as the head of VIM Agency's daycare, and lives independently with his girlfriend, Maude.
Establishing Character Moment: In the first episode, Todd doesn't do much besides hanging around BoJack's house and mooching off, yet has a high opinion of BoJack and clearly loves him, despite BoJack's dismissal of him. He seems perfectly content with who he is, while being the butt of the joke at every turn.
Friend to All Children: Todd is good with Ruthie, Princess Carolyn's adoptive daughter, which is one of the reasons why Princess Carolyn decides to hire him as Ruthie's nanny. This is taken even further in the latter half of Season 6, where Todd decides to open a daycare for VIM Agency's employees and it becomes a great success.
Foreshadowing: BoJack asks him if he wasn't some troubled gay teenager with an alternative lifestyle in his first appearance. Early in season 3, he is asked this again. From his interactions with Emily when they were young, it seems clear he is not interested in sex with her: this all comes together in the season 3 finale, with him coming out as asexual.
Mad Libs Catchphrase: "Hooray! (Something related to the current topic of conversation)!"
"Hooray! Gross miscarriage!"
"Hooray! A task!"
"Hooray! Question mark?"
"Hooray. Betrayal."
"Hooray! Responsibili—" (throws up)
"Hooray! And you know, I don't throw that word around lightly."
Manchild: Todd is a twenty-something slacker who was kicked out by his own family for playing too much video games. When he moves into BoJack's house, he continues to be lazy and mooches off his host (which BoJack bluntly calls out as parasitic behavior). And (at least at first), Todd didn't have a job most of the time.
Multi-Ethnic Name: "Todd" is of Northern English and Scottish origin; "Chavez" is of Spanish and Portuguese origin. Season 6 reveals that he's white but took his Hispanic stepfather's last name.
NEET: He lives by freeloading off of BoJack and sleeping on his couch. He doesn't have any education past high school and is rarely ever employed anywhere for long. When he leaves BoJack's house, he continues the trend with Princess Carolyn.
Never Bareheaded: He always keeps his yellow hat on.
Odd Friendship: He and Princess Carolyn turn out to be remarkably good roommates despite their diametrically opposed personalities.
Phrase Catcher: "Shut up, Todd!" Also "Todd, clean up your shit!"
Queer Colors:
The cab company Todd starts in season three, Cabracadabra, has a sign colored in purple, white, and black. At the end of the season, Todd realizes he's asexual, likely making this subtle foreshadowing.
The sign at the asexual meet-up Todd attends in "Hooray, Todd Episode!" is white with a purple and black border.
Romantic Asexual: Todd comes out to his high-school sweetheart, Emily, in a diner during the Season Three finale. She accepts his asexuality and they date for a while, but they later end up breaking up because her own needs aren't being met. He also briefly dates an asexual woman, but they have little else in common and break up.
Weirdness Magnet: It's a given that no matter where he goes, Todd's storylines will often have shreds of Fantastic Comedy, ranging from rescuing chickens to becoming a more confident person by the power of self-delusion.
Todd: You know, sometimes I feel like my whole life is just a series of loosely-related wacky misadventures.

 A cactus (plural cacti, cactuses, or less commonly, cactus) is a member of the plant family Cactaceae, a family comprising about 127 genera with some 1750 known species of the order Caryophyllales. The word "cactus" derives, through Latin, from the Ancient Greek κάκτος, kaktos, a name originally used by Theophrastus for a spiny plant whose identity is now not certain. Cacti occur in a wide range of shapes and sizes. Most cacti live in habitats subject to at least some drought. Many live in extremely dry environments, even being found in the Atacama Desert, one of the driest places on earth. Cacti show many adaptations to conserve water. Almost all cacti are succulents, meaning they have thickened, fleshy parts adapted to store water. Unlike many other succulents, the stem is the only part of most cacti where this vital process takes place. Most species of cacti have lost true leaves, retaining only spines, which are highly modified leaves. As well as defending against herbivores, spines help prevent water loss by reducing air flow close to the cactus and providing some shade. In the absence of leaves, enlarged stems carry out photosynthesis. Cacti are native to the Americas, ranging from Patagonia in the south to parts of western Canada in the north—except for Rhipsalis baccifera, which also grows in Africa and Sri Lanka. Cactus spines are produced from specialized structures called areoles, a kind of highly reduced branch. Areoles are an identifying feature of cacti. As well as spines, areoles give rise to flowers, which are usually tubular and multipetaled. Many cacti have short growing seasons and long dormancies, and are able to react quickly to any rainfall, helped by an extensive but relatively shallow root system that quickly absorbs any water reaching the ground surface. Cactus stems are often ribbed or fluted, which allows them to expand and contract easily for quick water absorption after rain, followed by long drought periods. Like other succulent plants, most cacti employ a special mechanism called "crassulacean acid metabolism" (CAM) as part of photosynthesis. Transpiration, during which carbon dioxide enters the plant and water escapes, does not take place during the day at the same time as photosynthesis, but instead occurs at night. The plant stores the carbon dioxide it takes in as malic acid, retaining it until daylight returns, and only then using it in photosynthesis. Because transpiration takes place during the cooler, more humid night hours, water loss is significantly reduced. Many smaller cacti have globe-shaped stems, combining the highest possible volume for water storage, with the lowest possible surface area for water loss from transpiration. The tallest free-standing cactus is Pachycereus pringlei, with a maximum recorded height of 19.2 m (63 ft), and the smallest is Blossfeldia liliputiana, only about 1 cm (0.4 in) in diameter at maturity. A fully grown saguaro (Carnegiea gigantea) is said to be able to absorb as much as 200 U.S. gallons (760 l; 170 imp gal) of water during a rainstorm. A few species differ significantly in appearance from most of the family. At least superficially, plants of the genus Pereskia resemble other trees and shrubs growing around them. They have persistent leaves, and when older, bark-covered stems. Their areoles identify them as cacti, and in spite of their appearance, they, too, have many adaptations for water conservation. Pereskia is considered close to the ancestral species from which all cacti evolved. In tropical regions, other cacti grow as forest climbers and epiphytes (plants that grow on trees). Their stems are typically flattened, almost leaf-like in appearance, with fewer or even no spines, such as the well-known Christmas cactus or Thanksgiving cactus (in the genus Schlumbergera). Cacti have a variety of uses: many species are used as ornamental plants, others are grown for fodder or forage, and others for food (particularly their fruit). Cochineal is the product of an insect that lives on some cacti. Many succulent plants in both the Old and New World – such as some Euphorbiaceae (euphorbias) – bear a striking resemblance to cacti, and may incorrectly be called "cactus" in common usage.

Queensway Transit Exchange is a bus terminal and transit hub in downtown Kelowna, British Columbia. Kelowna Regional Transit System buses from this terminal serve Kelowna, West Kelowna, and the UBC Okanagan campus, including the 97 RapidBus.

 National Route 496 is a national highway of Japan connecting between Yukuhashi, Fukuoka and Hita, Oita in Japan, with total length has 68.9 km (42.8 mi).

 Henry Lee (c. 1657 – 6 September 1734) of Dungeon, Canterbury was an English Tory politician who sat in the House of Commons in three periods between 1685 and 1715. Lee was the son of Dr John Lee, Archdeacon of Rochester and his third wife Anne English, daughter of Henry English of Maidstone. His father later took the name of Warner by Act of Parliament under the terms of the will of his uncle Dr John Warner, Bishop of Rochester. He matriculated at Balliol College, Oxford,on 4 July 1673, aged 16. He married Dorothy Howe, daughter of Sir George Grobham Howe, 1st Baronet and his wife Elizabeth Grimstone, daughter of Sir Harbottle Grimston, 2nd Baronet on 16 October 1679. Lee, who held the rank of Colonel, purchased the manor of Dungeon in Kent. He became an alderman of Canterbury and in March 1685 was elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Canterbury as a Tory. In 1687 he was elected Mayor of Canterbury, but dismissed from office by order of King James II. However he was re-elected MP for Canterbury in 1689 and held the seat until 1695. He was MP for Canterbury again from 1698 until he was defeated at the 1708 British general election. In 1704 he was appointed a Commissioner of Victualling. He was returned again for Canterbury at the 1710 British general election and was appointed a Commissioner for Victualling again in 1711. He was returned again at the 1713 general election but was defeated in 1715. Lee died on 6 September 1734. His son Henry Lee Warner, who was MP for Hindon, pulled down the mansion of the Dungeon.

 Jim Marking (April 26, 1927 – January 19, 2013) was an American professional coach, best known for his career at South Dakota State.

 Mazraeh-ye Abbasabad (Persian: مزرعه عباس اباد‎, also Romanized as Mazra‘eh-ye ‘Abbāsābād) is a village in Rahjerd-e Sharqi Rural District, Salafchegan District, Qom County, Qom Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 19, in 6 families.

 Bukovje is a village along the road linking the town of Dravograd and the settlement of Trbonje, northeast of Dravograd, along the southern bank of the Drava River, in northeastern Slovenia. The village is part of the traditional region of Styria and is, as part of the Municipality of Dravograd, included in the Carinthia Statistical Region. It was established in 2004, when it ceded from the settlement of Otiški Vrh.

 Dilip Dutta (born 29 September 1949) is an Indian former cricketer. He played one first-class match for Bengal in 1976/77.

 The California State Water Project, commonly known as the SWP, is a state water management project in the U.S. state of California under the supervision of the California Department of Water Resources. The SWP is one of the largest public water and power utilities in the world, providing drinking water for more than 23 million people and generating an average of 6,500 GWh of hydroelectricity annually. However, as it is the largest single consumer of power in the state itself, it has a net usage of 5,100 GWh. The SWP collects water from rivers in Northern California and redistributes it to the water-scarce but populous cities through a network of aqueducts, pumping stations and power plants. About 70% of the water provided by the project is used for urban areas and industry in Southern California and the San Francisco Bay Area, and 30% is used for irrigation in the Central Valley. To reach Southern California, the water must be pumped 2,882 feet (878 m) over the Tehachapi Mountains, with 1,926 feet (587 m) at the Edmonston Pumping Plant alone, the highest single water lift in the world. The SWP shares many facilities with the federal Central Valley Project (CVP), which primarily serves agricultural users. Water can be interchanged between SWP and CVP canals as needed to meet peak requirements for project constituents. The SWP provides estimated annual benefits of $400 billion to California's economy. Since its inception in 1960, the SWP has required the construction of 21 dams and more than 700 miles (1,100 km) of canals, pipelines and tunnels, although these constitute only a fraction of the facilities originally proposed. As a result, the project has only delivered an average of 2.4 million acre feet (3.0 km3) annually, as compared to total entitlements of 4.23 million acre feet (5.22 km3). Environmental concerns caused by the dry-season removal of water from the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta, a sensitive estuary region, have often led to further reductions in water delivery. Work continues today to expand the SWP's water delivery capacity while finding solutions for the environmental impacts of water diversion.

 Automobiles Rally was a small company which made sporting automobiles in Colombes, a northwestern suburb of Paris. The company traded from 1921 until 1933, but they did not manage to survive the Great Depression. Known for sporting and handsomely designed cars, Rally competed with other French cyclecar makers of the era such as Amilcar, B.N.C., and Salmson.

 The 2002–2004 European Nations Cup was the fourth edition of the newly reformed European Championship for tier 2 & 3 Rugby Union Nations. This was the second two-year cycled championship, the first to be planned from the start. The Third division had a controversy development. The Pool "C" match played was considered as "friendly match" and the four teams remained played a short tournament in Ibiza, Spain The winner of the pool "B" was promoted to pool "A" for the 2003–04 edition, and also the winner of "Pool C" will be promoted to pool "B".

 Sir Henry William Ripley, 1st Baronet (23 April 1813 – 9 November 1882), was a British businessman, philanthropist and Liberal Party politician who switched to the Conservative Party. Ripley became a principal partner in Edward Ripley and Son, an important dyeing company based at Bowling Dyeworks, Bowling, Bradford established by his grandfather in about 1806.

 In 1836 he married Susan Milligan of 'Acacia', Rawdon. West Yorkshire where he was living in 1881 with his family and a household of thirteen servants. In the late 1870s he bought an estate at Bedstone, Shropshire and in about 1882-4 he built a new mansion house Bedstone Court in Shropshire which became the family seat. He was active in local politics and sat as a town councilor for the Borough of Bradford. He was also a JP, chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and took an active role in founding and running the Yorkshire Penny Bank. In 1866 he commenced construction of Ripley Ville an estate of "model houses" for the working classes. When completed it had many of the aspects of an "industrial model village" - though residents were not limited to H.W. Ripley's employees. Ripley Ville can be compared with Akroydon (Halifax, built by H.W Ripley's friend and former schoolmate Edward Akroyd) and with Saltaire From 1868 he was also active in national politics. He was returned to Parliament for Bradford as a Liberal at the 1868 general election, but his election was overturned on petition in 1869. He was re-elected at the 1874 general election as an Independent, but was defeated at the 1880 general election when he stood as a Conservative. In 1880 he was created a Baronet, of Rawdon in the County of York and Bedstone, Shropshire. He died in November 1882, aged 69, and was succeeded as second Baronet by his eldest son Edward. His third son Frederick was created a Baronet in his own right in 1897. A month after his death in 1882, the chimney at Newlands Mill in Bradford (owned by Sir Henry), collapsed killing 54 people, many children were among the dead. Although a jury at an inquest exonerated Sir Henry, an in depth report by the Telegraph and Argus launched a scathing attack on Sir Henry for the way the chimney was built under his instruction.

 Deschampsia flexuosa, commonly known as wavy hair-grass, is a species of bunchgrass in the grass family widely distributed in Eurasia, Africa, South America, and North America.

 Khatt Atui is a wadi in North Africa. This dry riverbed begins near Aousserd in the disputed territory of Western Sahara and runs southwest through the Dakhlet Nouadhibou and Inchiri Regions of Mauritania, ending at the Baie d'Aouati on the Atlantic coast east of Iouik, Mauritania in Banc d'Arguin National Park. The Atui basin as defined by the Transboundary Waters Assessment Programme of the Global Environment Facility covers 83,295 square kilometres (32,160 sq mi) and is home to an estimated 99,599 people. The Mauritanian settlements of Chami (on the highway between Nouakchott and Nouadhibou), Imkebden and N'Talfa are located along the wadi, as is the Tasiast gold mine. Khatt Atui has been suggested as the location of the lower reaches of a major ancient river, dubbed the Tamanrasett paleoriver, that flowed through the Sahara to the Arguin Basin during humid episodes in the late Quaternary. Early Neolithic archaeological sites have been found along the Mauritanian portion of the wadi.

 Nico Sijmens (born 1 April 1978 in Diest, Belgium) is a retired Belgian road racing cyclist, who competed professionally between 2001 and 2014. Sijmens rodes for the Vlaanderen–T Interim, Landbouwkrediet–Tönissteiner, Cofidis and Wanty–Groupe Gobert teams over his career.

 The 1986–87 West Midlands (Regional) League season was the 87th in the history of the West Midlands (Regional) League, an English association football competition for semi-professional and amateur teams based in the West Midlands county, Shropshire, Herefordshire, Worcestershire and southern Staffordshire.

 Uklana Mandi, (उखलाणामंडी)is a city, municipal committee and Uklana (Vidhan Sabha constituency), in Hisar district in the Indian state of Haryana. The city supplies grains to thousands of local traders and rest of the country. Uklanamandi has three suburbs: Latani, Parbhuwala and Daulatpur.

 Shree Himalaya Higher Secondary School is public high school in Saurpani, Nepal. It was established in 2017 B.S (1060 A. D.) by local community and government of Nepal. At that time it was primary school, later it's became secondary and in 2065 B.S (2009 A.D) it's became high school. School was restored after destroyed in 2036 earthquake and it's again destroyed in 2072 Gorkha earthquake

 The Ellwood Walter was a ship used as a Liverpool packet ship the in the 19th century. She was also chartered to take a Battery to Port Royal during the American Civil War.

 Black Diamond is a census-designated place (CDP) in Citrus County, Florida, United States. The population was 1,101 at the 2010 census, up from 694 in 2000.

 Lycée polyvalent Pauline Roland is a senior high school/sixth-form college in the Nord/Ouest neighbourhood of Chevilly-Larue, Val-de-Marne, France, in the Paris metropolitan area. It is in proximity to the border with l'Haÿ-les-Roses. The school building has a capacity of 1,188 students.

 The year 542 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 212 Ab urbe condita. The denomination 542 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.

 America, Their America (1964) is a personal journal and travelogue by Nigerian writer J. P. Clark. It was written after Clark spent eight months in the United States studying at Princeton University (on a fellowship from which he was terminated). The book has been noted for its fusion of autobiography and travelogue into what one critic called an "autotravography" in the mould of books written by European and English visitors to the United States, such as Dickens's American Notes. Today the book is sometimes taught in college courses about West African literature and is cited in discussions about African perspectives on the United States. The book was also republished in 1968 as part of the influential Heinemann African Writers Series.

 Wladimir Jan Kochanski (5 December 1935 – 24 March 2015) was a graduate of the Juilliard School of Music and enjoyed a long career as a concert pianist. Throughout his career, the Texas-born virtuoso retained a loyal following. Other pianists admired his musicianship, while several studied with him privately and/or attended his summer master-classes in Southern California. In an effort to tear down barriers that can exist between classical performers and their audiences, Kochanski's concerts mixed humorous stories with classical music selections. Kochanski advertised himself as a "classical music entertainer".

 Stara Ciświca [ˈstara t͡ɕiɕˈfit͡sa] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Grodziec, within Konin County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 30 kilometres (19 mi) south-west of Konin and 86 km (53 mi) south-east of the regional capital Poznań. The village has a population of 320.

 Heliomystis is a monotypic moth genus in the family Geometridae. Its only species, Heliomystis electrica, the electric moth, is found in the southern half of Australia (New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania). Both the genus and species were first described by Edward Meyrick in 1888. The forewings are mottled shades of brown with black speckles and lines. These lines are usually stronger in females and diffuse whitish patches are present, particularly on the inner side of the postmedial line. The larvae feed on Eucalyptus dives and Eucalyptus obliqua. They are green, often darker ventrally or sometimes dorsally, with a whitish spiracular line. The posture of the mature larvae is straight or slightly curved, with the thoracic legs held together and projecting from the body like a thorn from a stick.

 Hormel Foods Corporation is an American company founded in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota, by George A. Hormel as George A. Hormel & Company. Originally focusing on the packaging and selling of ham, Spam, sausage and other pork, chicken, beef and lamb products to consumers; by the 1980s, Hormel began offering a wider range of packaged and refrigerated foods. The company changed its name to Hormel Foods in 1993. Hormel serves 80 countries with brands such as Applegate, Columbus Craft Meats, Dinty Moore, Jennie-O and Skippy.

 The Classic All Blacks is a rugby union team made up of former New Zealand Rugby (Men's) representatives. It is not an official national team of New Zealand. First put together in 2007, the team has played Japan three times, English Premiership side Leicester Tigers and 'classic' teams from France and Australia. In 2013 the side played Fiji as part of the Fiji Rugby Union's centennial anniversary. On 7 October 2015, the Classic All Blacks played Toulon at the Stade Mayol in a match to honour the late Jerry Collins.

 Starinki (Russian: Старинки) is a rural locality (a village) in Karinskoye Rural Settlement, Alexandrovsky District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population was 1 as of 2010. There is 1 street.

 The 2013 Protyre Formula Renault Championship was a multi-event motor racing championship for open wheel, formula racing cars held across England. The championship features a mix of professional motor racing teams and privately funded drivers competing in 2 litre Formula Renault single seat race cars that conform to the technical regulations for the championship. The 2013 season was the 19th British Formula Renault Championship organized by the British Automobile Racing Club and the second season as the premier Formula Renault 2.0 championship in the United Kingdom. The season began at Donington Park on 14 April and ended on 29 September at Silverstone Circuit. The series will form part of the BARC club racing meetings and expanded from fourteen to sixteen rounds at six events all held in England, with four triple header events. The series has undergone rebranding after the BARC Championship became the prominent Formula Renault Championship in the United Kingdom. The series took the name Protyre Formula Renault Championship, dropping the BARC tag after its growth into one of the leading national single seater championships in Great Britain.

 WCTB is an FM radio broadcast station licensed to Fairfield, Maine, USA, with studios in Skowhegan. It broadcasts on 93.5 MHz with a classic country format.

 Guillermo Leaden, S.D.B. (July 20, 1913 – July 14, 2014) was an Argentine Bishop of the Catholic Church. At nearly age 101, he was one of the oldest bishops in the Church and the oldest Argentine bishop.

 The Southeastern Spanish ibex or Beceite ibex (Capra pyrenaica hispanica) is a goat that is endemic to Spain.

 Horny House of Horror (ファッション·ヘル（ス）, Fasshon heru(su)) is a 2010 Japanese horror parody film directed and written by Jun Tsugita. The film is about three men, Nakazu (Yuya Ishikawa), Toshida (Wani Kansai) and Uno (Toushi Yanagi) who enter a brothel in Japan to allow Nakazu to have the experience paying for sex before his upcoming marriage. What the three men do not know is that the prostitutes plan to sexually torture the three men instead. Tsugita created the film being a fan of western exploitation films and had a desire to make a parody of the film Motel Hell. In 2011, the film was shown at various film festivals around the world including the Brussels International Fantastic Film Festival and the New York Asian Film Festival.

 The Microhylinae are a subfamily of microhylid frogs. A molecular phylogenetic study by van der Meijden, et al. (2007) has estimated the family Microhylidae to be about 52 million years old.

 The following is a list of rap rock artists with articles on Wikipedia. The list includes bands and musicians that have been described as a form of rap rock, including the subgenre rap metal (or rapcore), by professional journalists at some stage in their career.

 The Growth X is commonly used to describe the pattern created when plotting the market value of a successful growth company against its relative valuation over time. Early on in a company's life cycle (particularly with internet investments), companies can demand high valuations despite little or negative earnings. When the company breaks even, its valuation seems inflated from a relative valuation standpoint (market value divided by the company's earnings, EBITDA, or cash flow). Over time as the earnings power grows, the relative valuation begins to fall as earnings often growth faster than the market value (stock price). This pattern can be observed in most successful companies in recent history (AAPL, GOOG, FB). The Growth X is commonly used among growth and venture capital investors, and is believed to be coined by Spencer Walsh and Vidur Singhal, two prominent Silicon Valley internet investors. Much like other technical indicators, The Growth X is often disputed and depends on a company's ability to continually grow earnings. If investors bid up the market value of the company faster than the earnings growth rate, then The Growth X will not form, and the relative valuation will stay flat or continue to rise. Eventually relative valuations fall as growth prospects diminish, but this can often occur quickly and cause a step function down in valuation multiples.

 The Filmoteca de Catalunya is a film archive located in Catalunya, Spain, aiming at the preservation of film and the dissemination of audiovisual and film culture. Its head office and public rooms (cinemas, exhibition rooms, library) are located in the Raval neighbourhood, in central Barcelona. The Centre de Conservació i Restauració (the institution's Center for Conservation and Restoration) is located in the Parc Audiovisual in Terrassa.

 Valerie Yule (born 2 January 1929 in Melbourne, Australia) is a researcher in literacy and imagination, clinical child psychologist, academic, school psychologist and teacher, working in disadvantaged schools, Melbourne and Monash Universities in psychology and education; the Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne and the Royal Aberdeen Children's Hospital; and hon. research fellow (Psychology) at Aberdeen University.

 The Sponsored Reserves are a category of reserve forces in the British Armed Forces, created by the Reserve Forces Act 1996. It allows for certain support or specialist tasks to be carried out by trained civilian professionals. The Royal Fleet Auxiliary, for example, are sponsored reserves subject to the Armed Forces Act. The first sponsored reserve unit was the Mobile Meteorological Unit, providing mainly aviation weather services to the RAF and the Army Air Corps. Other Sponsored Reserve Units have been developed in line with the 1998 Strategic Defence Review.

 The 2003–04 Duke Blue Devils men's basketball team represented Duke University. The head coach was Mike Krzyzewski, who served for his 24th year at Duke. The team played its home games in Cameron Indoor Stadium in Durham, North Carolina, and was a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference.

 The Roman Catholic Diocese of Caroline Islands (Latin: Dioecesis Carolinensium) is an ecclesiastical territory or diocese of the Catholic Church in the Federated States of Micronesia and in the Republic of Palau. It is a suffragan diocese of the Ecclesiastical Province of Agaña. The Diocese of Caroline Islands is led by a bishop who pastors the mother church, the Cathedral of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.

 The W Line, also called the West Rail Line, is a light rail line in Denver, Lakewood, and Golden, Colorado, United States. The W Line was the first part of FasTracks to break ground, on May 16, 2007. The line, the only line to traverse the West Corridor, opened for service on Friday, April 26, 2013.

 List of rivers flowing in the province of Central Java, Indonesia:

 Paleontology or palaeontology is the study of prehistoric life forms on Earth through the examination of plant and animal fossils. This includes the study of body fossils, tracks (ichnites), burrows, cast-off parts, fossilised feces (coprolites), palynomorphs and chemical residues. Because humans have encountered fossils for millennia, paleontology has a long history both before and after becoming formalized as a science. This article records significant discoveries and events related to paleontology that occurred or were published in the year 1858.

 Mary Alice Eleanor Richards (1885–1977) was a British botanist.

 Clubs from Montenegro are playing in European basketball competitions since the 1980s. Until 2006, they represented SFR Yugoslavia and FR Yugoslavia. Almost all European seasons by Montenegrin clubs are played by KK Budućnost. Exceptions are two single seasons in European competitions played by KK Lovćen Cetinje and KK Mornar Bar. Most successful period was end of the 1990s and beginning of the 21st century. At that time, KK Budućnost played in the finish phases of EuroLeague. In that period, Budućnost often played games against greatest European basketball teams like FC Barcelona, Real Madrid, CSKA Moscow, Panathinaikos, Olympiacos, Maccabi Tel Aviv etc. On season 2018-19, KK Budućnost made a comeback to EuroLeague. During that campaign, team from Podgorica made notable wins against CSKA Moscow, FC Barcelona and Real Madrid.

 The Circuit Court of Cook County is the largest of the 24 judicial circuits in Illinois as well as one of the largest unified court systems in the United States — second only in size to the Superior Court of Los Angeles County since that court merged with other courts in 1998. The modern Cook County Circuit Court was created through a 1964 amendment to the Illinois Constitution which reorganized the courts of Illinois. The amendment effectively merged the often confusing and overlapping jurisdictions of Cook County's 161 courts, which were organized as municipal courts and specialized courts, into one uniform and cohesive court of general jurisdiction, organized into divisions, under the administration of one chief judge. More than 2.4 million cases are filed every year. To accommodate its vast caseload, the Circuit Court of Cook County is organized into three functional departments: County, Municipal, and Juvenile Justice and Child Protection. As of December 2014, the court has 402 judges. Among them, 257 of the judges are circuit judges, who are elected for six-year terms either at-large from across the entire county, or from one of the court's 15 residential subcircuits. Circuit judges must be retained by voters every six years. The Illinois Supreme Court can fill circuit judge vacancies between elections. Any court-appointed judges must go before voters at the next available primary and general election in even-numbered year. As of December 2014, seven judges currently elected as circuit judges are instead serving as justices on the Illinois Appellate Court's First District through Supreme Court appointments. Should their term on the appellate court expire before their elected circuit court terms, they will revert to their old positions. Another 145 judges are associate judges, elected by secret ballot among the court's circuit judges. The circuit judges also elect among themselves a chief judge for the court, who holds the power to assign judges to various calls throughout the court. Circuit Judge Timothy C. Evans has served as chief judge since September 2001. Dorothy Brown is the current Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County — a county-wide popularly elected position charged with managing the court's vast amounts of documents and related matters. 

 In economy of the Soviet Union and economy of Russia, Technical Control Departments (Russian: Отдел технического контроля, ОТК, OTK) were and are in charge of quality assurance of production and services. In the late Soviet Union the OTK existed in all socialist enterprises.

 Zodiac is an album led by saxophonist Cecil Payne recorded in 1968 but not released on the Strata-East label until 1973.

 The "Genius" is a semi-autobiographical novel by Theodore Dreiser, first published in 1915. The story concerns Eugene Witla, a talented painter of strong sexual desires who grapples with his commitment to his art and the force of his erotic needs. The book sold 8,000 copies in the months immediately following publication but encountered legal difficulties when it was declared potentially obscene. Dreiser's publisher was nervous about continuing publication and recalled the book from bookstores, and the novel did not receive broad distribution until 1923. When The "Genius" was reissued by a different publisher, the firm of Horace Liveright, it immediately sold more than 40,000 copies.

 Tolombeh-ye Abbas Jowkar (Persian: تلمبه عباس جوكار‎, also Romanized as Tolombeh-ye ‘Abbās Jowkār) is a village in Banaruiyeh Rural District, Banaruiyeh District, Larestan County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its existence was noted, but its population was not reported.

 Neela Parbat (Urdu: نیلا پربت‎) is a 1969 Pakistani Urdu film directed by Ahmad Bashir. It was Pakistan's one of the earliest experimental feature films. It had experimentation by the film director with the Freudian sensual themes which was very unusual for Pakistan at that time. So the film received a 'for adults only' rating. In this film, actress Komal had a really interesting foray into the parallel cinema. She portrayed the sensual play thing for actor Mohammad Ali.

 Carl Davidson is a former student leader of the New Left of the 1960s, serving as a Vice President and National Secretary of Students for a Democratic Society. From 1968 to 1976, he worked on the Guardian newsweekly as a writer and news editor. Born in 1943, he graduated with a B.A. in philosophy from Penn State, and later taught and did graduate work at the University of Nebraska, between 1965 and 1966. Today he is a national co-chair of the Committees of Correspondence for Democracy and Socialism and a national board member of Solidarity Economy Network, advocating a mixture of market socialism and worker ownership. Recently Davidson led Progressives for Obama, now called Progressive America Rising, as an independent left-progressive initiative, in part to convince those on the radical left to pursue what he considers more pragmatic alternatives. He has also worked on a leadership level with United for Peace and Justice and its local affiliates. After organizing for many years in New York City and Chicago, he now resides in Beaver County, PA, near Pittsburgh, where he was born and raised. 

 "Postcard" is the first single from Grace for Drowning, the second solo studio album, by British rock musician Steven Wilson. It was released digitally on 10 October 2011. The single includes the album version, a live piano/vocal version, a remix by Scottish new prog group North Atlantic Oscillation, and a remix of another track from the same album, "Index".

 Deux-Montagnes is a provincial electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that elects members to the National Assembly of Quebec. It consists of the cities of Deux-Montagnes and Saint-Eustache. It was created for the 1867 election (and an electoral district of that name existed earlier in the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada). 

 Sayaf Al Korbi (born 14 September 1991) is a Qatari footballer who currently plays . He is a graduate of Qatar's Aspire Academy.

 The Paderewski Prize for American Composers (aka Paderewski Fund for the Encouragement of American Composers) was a prize awarded to American composers every three years from 1901 to 1948. The prizes were sums of money ($1000 for a symphonic work, $500 or chorus and chamber) offered by the Trustees of the Paderewski Fund for American composers of (i) the best symphonic music and (ii) the best chamber music. For reference, $1000 in 1920 would be worth about $12,331 in 2014, assuming an annual inflation rate of 2.71%. The prestige of the prize far outweighed the cash benefit. In most cases, the publicity from the prizes led to assurances of international performances. Paderewski established a similar fund for Composers in Leipzig in 1898. 

 William Lawrence "Seattle Bill" James (March 12, 1892 – March 10, 1971) was a Major League Baseball pitcher. He was given a nickname to differentiate him from his contemporary, "Big" Bill James. The Braves purchased James in 1912 from the Seattle Giants of the Northwestern League. In 1914, James was an integral member of the Braves team that went from last place to first place in two months, becoming the first team to win a pennant after being in last place on the Fourth of July. In his only full season, James posted a record of 26 wins against 7 losses. The Braves then went on to defeat Connie Mack's heavily favored Philadelphia Athletics in the 1914 World Series. James was 2–0 in the World Series as the Braves recorded the first sweep in Series history. During World War I, James was an instructor at bomb-throwing for the US Army. He pitched in the minor leagues until 1925. 

 Samt und Seide is a German television series. 

 Alternative Songs is a record chart published by the music industry magazine Billboard that ranks the most-played songs on American modern rock radio stations. Introduced by Billboard in September 1988, the chart is based on electronically-monitored airplay data compiled by Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems from approximately 80 national rock radio stations. Songs are ranked by a calculation of its total number of radio spins per week and its "audience impression", which is based upon exact times of airplay and each station's Arbitron listener data. 115 singles topped the Alternative Songs chart during the 2010s. The first number one of the 2010s was "Uprising" by Muse, while the last was "Orphans" by Coldplay. From October 2012 to February 2013, Muse's single "Madness" topped the chart for 19 non-consecutive weeks, breaking the record for the most weeks spent at number one by a single in the chart's history. In 2017, "Feel It Still" by Portugal. The Man broke this record by topping the chart for 20 weeks. The American band Cage the Elephant attained nine Alternative Songs number-one hits during the 2010s, the most by any artist within the decade.

 Somewhere in My Past is a 1985 song composed by Mon del Rosario and recorded by Filipino singer-actress Julie Vega. The song is the debut single of Julie Vega and later served as the lead single of Vega's debut album "First Love" released under Emerald Recording Company. 

 The Deputy Minister of Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs (Malay: Timbalan Menteri Perdagangan Dalam Negeri dan Hal Ehwal Pengguna; Chinese: 馬來西亞國內貿易與消費者事務部副部長; Tamil: மலேசியாவின் உள்நாட்டு வர்த்தக மற்றும் நுகர்வோர் விவகாரங்களுக்கான துணை அமைச்சர்) is a non-Malaysian cabinet position serving as deputy head of the Ministry of Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs. The Ministry of Domestic Trade and Consumerism was created in 1990 as a reconstruction of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. International trade functions were eventually transferred to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, leaving the International Trade Ministry in charge of Industry proper. 

 Marie Mariterangi, Marie Mariteragi, Marie Terangi or Marie was a singer, songwriter of Polynesian pop music, guitarist and ukulele player. She was born on May 3, 1926 in Hikueru in French Polynesia and died on April 27, 1971 in Papeete in French Polynesia. 

 Steven Carl Pelluer (born July 29, 1962) is a former professional American football quarterback in the National Football League for the Dallas Cowboys and Kansas City Chiefs. He was selected by the Dallas Cowboys in the 5th round of the 1984 NFL Draft. He played college football at the University of Washington. 

 Darren Morgan (born 10 April 1965) is a former Australian rules footballer who played with Geelong in the Victorian/Australian Football League (VFL/AFL). Morgan came from Belmont and put in some good performances for Geelong in his debut season, including being best on ground against Richmond in just his third appearance. A speedster, he missed just one game in 1985, and the following year he averaged a career-high 17 disposals. He didn't see much action in 1987 and 1988 but played 21 games as a half back in 1989. In a game against West Coast at Kardinia Park that year, Morgan kicked five goals, which equaled the combined efforts of star forwards Gary Ablett and Billy Brownless. Although he played in the 1989 Qualifying Final, Morgan didn't take any further part in Geelong's run to the grand final. He would likely have played in the premiership decider had David Cameron not recovered from his shoulder injury in time. After the 1990 season, Morgan was traded to the Sydney Swans. He however refused to make the move and instead spent the season at Werribee where he was their joint "Best and Fairest" winner. In the 1991 AFL Draft he was again traded, this time to Footscray, in return for the 68th pick in the draft. Morgan didn't play a single senior game for Footscray. 

 Iván García Solís (born 19 June 1936) is a Mexican politician affiliated with the Party of the Democratic Revolution (formerly to the Unified Socialist Party of Mexico). As of 2014 he served as Deputy of the LIX Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing the Federal District.

 Jean Domas (born 1892, date of death unknown) was a French wrestler who competed in the Greco-Roman middleweight event at the 1924 Summer Olympics.

 Pitepalt (see palt) is a Swedish dish related to kroppkakor or meat-filled dumplings. It is especially associated with the city of Piteå in Norrbotten County, thought to be its place of origin. 

 Countess Agatha Marie of Hanau-Lichtenberg (22 August 1599 – 23 May 1636) was a daughter of Count Johann Reinhard I (1569-1625) and his wife, Countess Maria Elisabeth of Hohenlohe-Neuenstein (1576-1605). Agatha Marie was born in Buchsweiler (now Bouxwiller). She died on 23 May 1636 in the city of Baden (now called Baden-Baden) and was buried in Rappoltsweiler (now called Ribeauvillé). 

 O'Garney Park (Irish: Páirc Uí gCearnaigh) is a GAA stadium in Sixmilebridge, County Clare, Ireland. It is the home of Sixmilebridge GAA club and is one of the main grounds of Clare GAA's Gaelic football and hurling teams.

 Harvey Adams (1889, Warrington, England[1] – 1960, Australia) was an English actor and director who worked extensively in film, stage and radio. He moved to Australia in 1924 for work after a long career, played leading man for Muriel Starr from 1925 to 1930, in later years also serving as producer for many of her shows, and for other companies after she left in 1930, earning a reputation for meticulous attention to detail. He remained in Australia for most of the rest of his life.

 Vijay Prashad is an Indian historian, journalist, commentator and a Marxist intellectual. He is an executive-director of Tricontinental: Institute for Social Research and the Chief Editor of LeftWord Books. He was the George and Martha Kellner Chair in South Asian History and a professor of International Studies at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, United States from 1996 to 2017. In 2013–2014, he was the Edward Said Chair at the American University of Beirut and has been a Senior Fellow of the Issam Fares Institute for Public Policy and International Affairs in Beirut. Prashad is the author of thirty books. In 2012, he published five books, including Arab Spring, Libyan Winter (AK Press) and Uncle Swami: South Asians in America Today (The New Press). His book The Darker Nations: A People's History of the Third World (2007) was chosen as the Best Nonfiction book by the Asian American Writers' Workshop in 2008 and it won the Muzaffar Ahmed Book Award in 2009. In 2013, Verso published his The Poorer Nations: A Possible History of the Global South. He is author of No Free Left: The Futures of Indian Communism (LeftWord Books, 2015) and the editor of Letters to Palestine (Verso Books, 2015), a book that includes the writings of Teju Cole, Sinan Antoon, Noura Erakat, and Junot Diaz. His most recent book is Washington Bullets (LeftWord, 2020), with a preface by Evo Morales Ayma. Prashad is a journalist, the Chief Correspondent for Globetrotter - a project of the Independent Media Institute. He is a columnist for Frontline and writes regularly for The Hindu and BirGun. He has reported from around the world for the Indian media - from Latin America to the Middle East to Africa. In 2015, Prashad joined as the Chief Editor of the New Delhi-based publisher LeftWord Books. He is also an advisory board member of the US Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel, part of the global BDS movement.

 Abthugni (Punic: 𐤀𐤐𐤁𐤂𐤍, ʾPBGN, or 𐤀𐤐𐤕𐤁𐤂𐤍, ʾPTBGN) was an ancient city in Roman North Africa at present day Suwar (Henchir-es-Souar) in Tunisia.  It was in Roman times in the province of Africa Proconsularis, Africa, and latter in Byzacena. In late antiquity Abthugni was also the seat of a bishop, and the diocese is a titular see of the Roman Catholic Church to this day.

 Kina Reusch (1941–1988) was a Canadian artist based in Montreal, Quebec. Resuch's work Torii was part of the Corridart exhibition during the 1976 Montreal Olympics, which was taken down after six days by the City of Montreal. In 1977 Reusch was hired as the director of Montreal's Galerie Powerhouse, a presentation centre dedicated to art made by women. Her work is included in the collections of the National Gallery of Canada and the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec. Her personal papers are held in the library of Concordia University, Montreal.

 Just One Look is the title of the second EP by The Hollies. It was put out by Parlophone in mono with the catalogue number GEP 8911 and released in the UK in late June 1964. The EP entered the British charts on 27 June 1964 and peaked at #8 on the Record Retailer chart after ten weeks. All songs on this EP were previously released at the time. Side A consisted of the A and B-side to the band's "Just One Look" single released in February 1964. Side B contained two tracks from the band's debut album, Stay with the Hollies.

 Anthony "Tony" DeSpirito (December 24, 1935 – May 26, 1975) was a champion American Thoroughbred horse racing jockey who found instant fame when he won the national riding title in 1952 as an apprentice in his first full year of racing. Born in Lawrence, Massachusetts, Tony DeSpirito was the son of a millworker. He left school at an early age to work as an exercise rider at Rockingham Park in Salem, New Hampshire. There are conflicting newspaper reports of his birth year but the United States Social Security Death Index records him as being born in 1935. DeSpirito rode his first race as an apprentice jockey in 1951 at Narragansett Park in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. 

 The men's javelin throw event at the 1971 Pan American Games was held in Cali on 3 August.

 A pavise (or pavis, pabys, or pavesen) was an oblong shield used during the late 14th to early 16th centuries. Often large enough to cover the entire body, it was used by archers, crossbowmen and other infantry soldiers. The name comes from the city of Pavia, Italy. Of European origin, the pavise was large, square and convex. A smaller version for hand-to-hand combat and for wearing on the backs of men-at-arms was also made. The pavise is characterized by its prominent central ridge. The concept of using a shield to cover an archer dates to at least the writing of Homer's Iliad, where Ajax used his shield to cover his half-brother Teucer, an archer, who would "peer round" and shoot arrows.[2] Similar large shields made of wicker were used by Achaemenid sparabara infantry. The pavise was primarily used by archers and crossbowmen in the Middle Ages, particularly during sieges. It was carried by a pavisier, usually an archer, or, especially for the larger ones, by a specialist pavise-bearer. The pavise was held in place by the pavisier or sometimes deployed in the ground with a spike attached to the bottom. While reloading their weapons, archers and crossbowmen would crouch behind them to shelter against incoming missile attacks. Pavises were often painted with the coat of arms of the town where they were made, and sometimes stored in the town arsenal for when the town came under attack. Religious icons such as St. Barbara and St. George were featured on the front of pavises. Even the Hussite chalice was featured on pavises during the Hussite Wars. Most pavises were covered in a coarse, carpet-base-like canvas, before being painted with oil and egg-based paints. Only 200 or so exist today but many were present in the period. A related term, pavisade or pavesade, refers to a decorative row of shields or a band of canvas hung around a sailing vessel to prevent an opponent from observing the activities of those on board and to discourage boarding. 

 The Malacca Crocodile Farm (Malay: Taman Buaya Melaka) is a crocodile farm in Ayer Keroh, Malacca, Malaysia. The farm is the largest crocodile farm in Malaysia.

 The Brock KB-3 is an American autogyro that was designed by Ken Brock, produced by Ken Brock Mfg and introduced in 1985. The aircraft was supplied as a kit for amateur construction and was also available as plans.

 This article provides an error analysis of time discretization applied to spatially discrete approximation of the stationary and nonstationary Navier-Stokes equations. The nonlinearity of the convection term is the main problem in solving a stationary or nonstationary Navier-Stokes equation or Euler equation problems. Stoke incorporated ‘the method of artificial compressibility’ to solve these problems. 

 Gary Dennis Melchionni (born January 19, 1951) is a retired American professional basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) and other leagues. He is a former Phoenix Suns guard and a former All-Atlantic Coast Conference performer while he was with the Duke Blue Devils, where he was the first player to captain twice. He is the father of former Duke basketball player Lee Melchionni. Gary captained his Bishop Eustace Prep team to an undefeated 26-0 record and a New Jersey state championship his senior year. After his professional basketball career, Gary returned to Duke for law school. He later became President of the Duke alumni association and has had a successful career in law at Stevens and Lee, a Lancaster, PA law firm.

 Zhan Qimin (Chinese: 詹启敏; pinyin: Zhān Qǐmǐn; born 22 January 1959) is a Chinese molecular oncologist currently serving as director of Peking University Medicine Department, executive vice-president of Peking University and dean of Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School. He is a member of the Communist Party of China. 

  Rathi Polybond is an engineering and rubber group based in India. It specialises in the manufacture and distribution of couplings, rubber products, anti-vibration mounts and other similar products. The group has two main companies; Rathi Transpower which is responsible for power transmission devices and Rathi Polybond which creates the rubber products. The group distributes to over 40 countries worldwide. 

 David Steven Brown (January 16, 1953 – January 10, 2006) was an American football player and coach. Brown played 15 seasons in the National Football League (NFL) at the cornerback position for the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1975, the Seattle Seahawks from 1976 to 1986 and the Green Bay Packers from 1987 to 1989. He was selected as a second-team All-NFL player in 1984 and a second-team All-AFC player in 1985. His 62 career interceptions ranks tied for tenth in NFL history, and his 50 interceptions with the Seahawks remains a club record. Brown also played college football as a safety and punt returner for the University of Michigan from 1972 to 1974. While playing for Michigan, compiled 526 punt return yards (11.7 yards per return), three punt returns for touchdowns, 174 tackles, nine interceptions, 202 interception return yards, and 15 pass breakups. He was selected as a consensus first-team defensive back on the 1973 College Football All-America Team and a unanimous first-team pick on the 1974 College Football All-America Team. He was posthumously inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2007. In his later years, Brown pursued a career in coaching. He was the defensive backs coach for the Seattle Seahawks from 1992 to 1998 and for the Texas Tech Red Raiders football team from 2001 until his death in January 2006. 

 The 1989 Giro d'Italia was the 72nd edition of the Giro d'Italia, one of cycling's Grand Tours. The Giro started off in Taormina on 21 May with a 123 km (76.4 mi) flat stage that ended in Catania. The race concluded in Florence with a 53 km (32.9 mi) individual time trial on 11 June. Twenty-two teams entered the race, which was won by the Frenchman Laurent Fignon of the Super U team. Second and third respectively were the Italian Flavio Giupponi and the American rider, Andrew Hampsten. In the race's other classifications, Vladimir Poulnikov of the Alfa Lum-STM finished the Giro as the best neo-professional in the general classification, finishing in eleventh place overall; Café de Colombia rider Luis Herrera won the mountains classification, Giovanni Fidanza of the Chateau d'Ax-Salotti team won the points classification, and Carrera Jeans–Vagabond rider Jure Pavlič won the inaugural intergiro classification. Fagor - MBK finished as the winners of the Trofeo Fast Team classification, ranking each of the twenty-two teams contesting the race by lowest cumulative time. 

 The Baroque fortifications in the Black Forest (German: Barocke Verteidigungsanlagen im Schwarzwald), also called Baroque Schanzen (Barockschanzen) or Black Forest lines (Schwarzwaldlinien), are historical, military earthworks, known as schanzen, that were built in the Black Forest in what is now Germany. They were built in the 17th century to defend the Margraviate of Baden from French invasion. Together with their adjoining defensive lines, the Black Forest fortifications formed a defensive system over 200 kilometres long that ran from north to south. 

 Hamdallaye, Niger is a village and rural commune in Niger. It is the location of the US Peace Corps training site. 

 Eric Sutherland Robertson (1857 – 24 May 1926) was a Scottish man of letters, academic in India, and clergyman. 

 Herwin Tri Saputra (born January 10, 1991) is an Indonesian professional footballer who plays as a defender for Liga 1 club TIRA-Persikabo.

  The Koo Wee Rup Bypass is a single carriageway road in Victoria, Australia. It links the Princes Freeway at Pakenham to the South Gippsland Highway at Koo Wee Rup, bypassing Koo Wee Rup. The road opened on 15 May 2015.

 Tygelsjö vång is a neighbourhood of Malmö, situated in the Borough of Limhamn-Bunkeflo, Malmö Municipality, Skåne County, Sweden. 

 Zaborów [zaˈbɔruf] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Uniejów, within Poddębice County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 9 kilometres (6 mi) north-east of Uniejów, 17 km (11 mi) north-west of Poddębice, and 51 km (32 mi) north-west of the regional capital Łódź. 

 The 2015 Canadian Soccer League season was the 18th since its establishment where a total of 22 teams from Ontario took part in the league. The season began on May 9, 2015, and concluded on October 25, 2015. Toronto Croatia won their sixth championship (ninth including Canadian National Soccer League titles) in a 1–0 victory over SC Waterloo in the CSL Championship final held at Warrior Field in Waterloo, Ontario. In the regular season the Serbian White Eagles clinched their fourth regular season title, while Milton SC won their first second division championship. The First Division saw an increase to 12 teams, while the Second Division remained the same. New additions to the first division was the return of Brantford Galaxy along with Toronto Atomic, and Scarborough SC as expansion franchises. Founding member North York Astros disbanded their professional team while Kingston FC departed in order to apply for League1 Ontario.

 Conxita Mora Jordana (15 April 1955 – 5 October 2016), was an Andorran politician, first female Mayor of Andorra la Vella between 1999 and 2003. In 2007 she was the director of the Andorran business federation. Between 2009 and 2011 she was a member of the General Council of Andorra, the legislative chamber with the Reformist Coalition.

 Zhongyan (Chinese: 中衍; pinyin: Zhōngyǎn; lit.: 'Yan the Younger') was a figure in Chinese mythology. In the Records of the Grand Historian, Sima Qian's account of the origins of the House of Ying state that he was the great-great-grandson of Lian the Great, son of Fei the Great (also known as Boyi). In turn, he was said to be the great-great-grandfather of Zhongjue. 

 National Tertiary Route 912, or just Route 912 (Spanish: Ruta Nacional Terciaria 912, or Ruta 912) is a National Road Route of Costa Rica, located in the Guanacaste province. 

 The 2002 Malta International Tournament (known as the Rothmans Tournament for sponsorship reasons) was the eleventh edition of the Malta International Tournament. Held between 9 February and 13 February 2002, the tournament was contested by host country Malta, Jordan, Lithuania and Moldova. 

 Stephen Joseph Lukasik (March 19, 1931 – October 3, 2019) was an American physicist who served in multiple high-level defense and scientific related positions for advancing the technologies and techniques for national defense and the detection and control of diverse types of weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear devices. He was the second longest serving Director of DARPA - the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency – during which numerous new technologies including packet and internet protocols were developed. He was also the first Chief Scientist of the Federal Communications Commission where he created its Office of Science and Technology and which facilitated the commercial deployment of new technology that included spread spectrum technology.

 Syangboche Airport (IATA: SYH, ICAO: VNSB) is a domestic airport located in Namche Bazaar serving Solukhumbu District, a district in Province No. 1 in Nepal. The airstrip is the closest airstrip to Mount Everest and Everest Base Camp. However, it is not often used by those going to either as this is generally not viewed as consistent with safe, reasonably paced elevation acclimatization. Rather, typical users of this airstrip are tourists who plan on visiting a nearby hotel and going no higher or those who plan only on going to Namche Bazaar.

 Eleazer Williams (May 1788 – August 28, 1858) was a Canadian clergyman and missionary of Mohawk descent. Williams was born in Sault St. Louis, Quebec, Canada, the son of Thomas Williams, and was educated at Dartmouth College. He published tracts and a spelling book in the Iroquois language, translated the Book of Common Prayer into Iroquois, and wrote a biography of Chief Te-ho-ra-gwa-ne-gen (Thomas Williams). 

 Nadiya Borovska (born 25 February 1981, in Zghorany village) is a Ukrainian race walker. She competed in the 20 kilometres event at the 2012 Summer Olympics finishing in 16th place. In 2018, she competed in the women's 20 kilometres walk event at the 2018 European Athletics Championships held in Berlin, Germany.[3] She finished in 10th place. In 2019, she competed in the women's 20 kilometres walk event at the 2019 World Athletics Championships held in Doha, Qatar. She finished in 20th place.

 Pushkin House (Russian: Пушкинский Дом) is the UK's oldest independent Russian cultural centre. Founded in 1954 in a house in Notting Hill by a group of émigré Russian friends, led by Maria Mikhailovna Kullmann (Zernova). Their aim was to create a welcoming meeting-place "for the enjoyment, understanding and promotion of Russian culture in all its forms, and for the exchange of views in a lively, informal atmosphere, with freedom of speech a core principle". Today, Pushkin House remains true to its original mission. In its current home, a 300-year-old listed building on Bloomsbury Square, Pushkin House hosts a varied programme of Russian literature, poetry, art, cinema, music, theatre and dance, history, philosophy and current affairs. Events include lectures, exhibitions, films, concerts, readings, panel discussions, debates and its celebrated annual Book Prize. Pushkin House is a politically independent, Registered UK Charity, owned and run by the Pushkin House Trust. While the original endowment set up more than half a century ago ensures its independence, Pushkin House relies on ticket sales and unconditional donations from the public to maintain quality programming. 

 Romulus Cioflec (April 1, 1882, Araci – November 13, 1955) was a writer, journalist and activist from Romania. He was the editor in chief of Românul in Arad and worked for Cuvânt Moldovenesc, a newspaper from Chişinău, where he lived between 1917 and 1926.

 The 2014 Texas A&M–Commerce Lions football team represented Texas A&M University–Commerce in the 2014 NCAA Division II football season. They were led by head coach Colby Carthel, who was in his second season at Texas A&M–Commerce. The Lions played their home games at Memorial Stadium and were members of the Lone Star Conference (LSC). With a 9–3 record, the Lions were outright Lone Star champions for the first time since 1990. They were selected to participate in the C.H.A.M.P.S. Heart of Texas Bowl, where they defeated East Central in their first postseason win since the 1991 NCAA Division II playoffs. 

 Epidendrum flexuosum, a reed-stemmed Epidendrum common at mid-altitudes in Central America, is a species of orchid commonly called Epidendrum imatophyllum. It grows exposed to intense sunlight in the forest canopy, particularly on Guava species. E. flexuosum bears non-resupinate lavender flowers on a congested raceme at the end of a long peduncle. In the wild, Epidendrum flexuosum grows naturally together with a nest of ants, and sometimes bees, wasps, or hornets, which protect it from predators. This species is very difficult to grow without the ants, a phenomenon found in other genera such as Caularthron, Coryanthes, and Sievekingia.

 This is a list of the members of the Iceland Althing (Parliament) from 1999 till 2003. 

 Middlebourne is an unincorporated community in Guernsey County, in the U.S. state of Ohio.

 John Speraw (born October 18, 1971) is an American volleyball coach. He is the head coach of the men's volleyball team at United States national team and UCLA. He was the former coach of UC Irvine volleyball program where he led the team to three national titles in six years. Speraw graduated from UCLA in 1995 with a B.S. degree in micro-biology and molecular genetics. 

 Ståle Petter Lyngstadaas is a Norwegian professor and researcher with a focus on biomaterials and bone regeneration. Since 2013, he is the Vice-Dean of Research at Faculty of Dentistry, Oslo University He is the discoverer of Lyngstadaas syndrome.

 Bernd Wiesner is a skydiver, who competed for the SC Dynamo Hoppegarten / Sportvereinigung (SV) Dynamo. He won several medals at the World Championships.

 Rälla tall is a village in the municipality of Borgholm situated on the island of Öland and is part of the province Kalmar län in Sweden. The village has 72 inhabitants (2005).

 Steven Quartz Universe is the titular main protagonist of the franchise of the same name. He is the son of Greg Universe and Rose Quartz, the only known hybrid of a human and a Gem and the first Crystal Gem of human descent. As a result of his parentage, Steven is an extraordinarily unique being with innate powers beyond that of normal humans and Gems. While he was only a child, Steven steadily grew from a tag-along to the Crystal Gems into the heart of the team thanks to his kind-hearted nature and resourcefulness. Steven is devoted to protecting humanity and helping those in need just as Rose Quartz did, and though her monumental legacy once forced Steven to live in her shadow he has since surpassed her by ending the authoritarian practices of the Great Diamond Authority and establishing peace across the galaxy. However, the consequences of his mother's mistakes continue to haunt Steven and those he cares about to his growing frustration. Additionally, as his friends and family continue to grow and start to go out into the world and beyond, Steven has begun to struggle with his own self-identity and what he wants to do with the rest of his life. He has also started coming to terms with suppressed trauma that he has built up over the course of his years of adventures and near-death experiences with Gems. At the end of the series, however, after holding his feelings in for so long culminates in him transforming into a giant Gem monster after coming to the conclusion that he is one, Steven's friends and family manage to get through to him with the power of love. In the months following, he decides to leave Beach City to go on a road trip on his own to see the world and find himself. 

 Gregory "Greg" Universe (born Gregory DeMayo) is the father of Steven Universe and was the romantic partner of the now-deceased Rose Quartz. He is the current owner of It's a Wash. Greg struggled financially for most, if not all, of his adult life. However, in "Drop Beat Dad" he is awarded a royalty check and becomes a millionaire. Greg later uses some of the money to go on a trip with Steven and Pearl, where he and Pearl finally make peace with one another after having a strained relationship for decades. As Steven became more involved in his life as a Crystal Gem, Greg continued to support his son and learned to have more faith in him after previously showing concern for Steven's safety during his missions. After living in his van for years, Greg moves into the Beach House in "The Future" when Steven decides to move out and find himself in the world. 

 Andy DeMayo is the cousin of Greg Universe and the first cousin once removed of Steven Universe. He made his debut in "Gem Harvest". A pilot, he kept his equipment and lived at the barn until it was inhabited by Peridot, Lapis Lazuli, and Pumpkin, much to his dismay. After being convinced to accept it by Steven, he let them stay and became an ally and a friend. 

 Steven Universe is an American animated television series created by Rebecca Sugar that focuses on Steven, the youngest member of the Crystal Gems, a team of magical guardians who protect the Earth. The Pilot was released on May 21, 2013, on Rebecca Sugar's father's YouTube channel (but has since been removed). The show premiered on Cartoon Network on November 4, 2013, in the US, on January 6, 2014, in some parts of Asia, and April 7, 2014, in South America. On July 25, 2014, it was announced that Steven Universe has been renewed for Season 2,  and on July 7, 2015, it was announced that the series had been renewed for a third season.[4] On March 30, 2016, it was declared that these two seasons would be subdivided to create four seasons of shorter length, giving the show five seasons total. The show aired its series finale, "Change Your Mind", on January 21, 2019, concluding the series with 5 seasons and 160 episodes. It was announced on July 21, 2018, at San Diego Comic-Con that a film adaptation of the series, entitled Steven Universe: The Movie, would be coming out. It premiered on September 2, 2019. It was announced on October 4, 2019, that the show would be succeeded by an epilogue show, entitled Steven Universe Future. The series takes place after the events of the movie and premiered on December 7, 2019. It ended on March 27, 2020. 

 Garnet is the fusion of Ruby and Sapphire and the current de-facto leader of the Crystal Gems. Garnet is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth who joined the Crystal Gems in the Rebellion against the Gem Homeworld and afterward assisted her friends in protecting the Earth over the next few millennia. After Rose Quartz gave up her physical form to give birth to her son, Steven Universe, Garnet took over as the leader of the group. Years later, Garnet is still an extremely stable fusion, living a loving and peaceful life among the Crystal Gems and their uncorrupted allies. This life came under threat when Spinel returned and struck her with a Gem Rejuvenator, wiping her memories and separating Ruby and Sapphire. The two then fuse accidentally and are subsequently restored when she is reminded of the value of truth and love. Garnet no longer feels pressured or overwhelmed due to her future vision which had caused her to once be stoic and distant, but instead is ready to face the future as it naturally unfolds. 

 Ruby is a member of the Crystal Gems who made her official debut in "Jail Break". Originally a Homeworld Gem soldier assigned to protect Sapphire during a mission on Earth, the two accidentally fused and were forced to flee to prevent Ruby from being shattered by Blue Diamond. Ruby later joined the Crystal Gems and remains together with Sapphire as their fusion, Garnet. 

 Sapphire is a member of the Crystal Gems who made her official debut in "Jail Break". Previously a member of Blue Diamond's court, her mission was to inform her Diamond about the Rebels' attack using her future vision. After one of her guards, Ruby, accidentally fused with her, Sapphire fled with her to prevent her from being shattered by Blue Diamond. Sapphire later joined the Crystal Gems and remains together with Ruby as their fusion, Garnet. 

 Amethyst (specifically Amethyst Facet-5 Cut-8XM) is a member of the Crystal Gems. She is the last known Gem manufactured on Earth as a part of the Gem Homeworld's Kindergarten project, being one of the last surviving Gems on Earth. After being found by Rose Quartz and the other Crystal Gems, Amethyst helped her friends protect the Earth over the next four millennia, and often aids in the shenanigans of Steven Universe. Years later, Amethyst lives a peaceful life with the Crystal Gems, no longer struggling with low self-esteem. Though she was struck by a Gem Rejuvenator during Spinel's return and had her memory wiped, Amethyst was eventually restored by Steven, who helps her recall her fondness for him and her team through past experiences on Earth. Amethyst, alongside her fellow Crystal Gems, currently teaches at Little Homeschool. Despite once struggling with figuring out who she was, as well as battling self-confidence issues surrounding her appearance, Amethyst has since found peace and now assists other Gems in finding themselves as well. 

 Pearl is a member of the Crystal Gems. She was Pink Diamond's second Pearl, and one of Rose Quartz's closest followers and her sole confidant. Pearl is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth who joined the Crystal Gems in their rebellion against the Gem Homeworld. Pearl would afterward protect the Earth over the next several millennia alongside her friends, while later teaching Steven the ways of Gems. Years later, Pearl is no longer suffering from issues of self-worth and finds her way, knowing she is herself. Though she is struck and her memories wiped by Spinel's Rejuvenator, she gets her memories back by having Greg and Steven fuse into Steg, who reminds her of her independence. Pearl now teaches at Little Homeschool, teaching Gems how to interact with human beings. While she previously seemed to find interaction with humans uncomfortable, Pearl now actively partakes in it and encourages other Gems to do the same. 

 Peridot (specifically Peridot Facet-2F5L Cut-5XG) is a member of the Crystal Gems who made her debut in "Warp Tour". She was originally a Homeworld Gem technician and a certified Kindergartener. After being stranded on Earth following the events of "Jail Break", she acted as a recurring antagonist until becoming more of an anti-hero and pseudo-antagonist by establishing a truce with the Crystal Gems in "When It Rains" to help them save the Earth from the Cluster. She officially became a member in "Message Received" after she defied her Homeworld superior, Yellow Diamond. For some time, Peridot lived in the barn with Lapis Lazuli, but began residing in the Crystal Temple after Lapis fled the planet with their home in "Raising the Barn". As of the events of Steven Universe: The Movie, she lives with Lapis Lazuli and Bismuth in Little Homeworld. 

 Bismuth is one of the original and current members of the Crystal Gems. Before the end of the Rebellion, she and Rose Quartz had a conflict of interests, leading to them falling out. This ultimately led to Bismuth being poofed, bubbled, and left inside of the Pink Dimension. Rose then lied to the other Gems, telling them that she went missing in battle. 5,300 years later, Rose's son, Steven, accidentally freed her. After her proposal had been rejected once again, she and Steven fought and she was poofed and bubbled again by him. This time, unlike Rose, Steven revealed to the others what happened to her. Bismuth was kept in her bubble for some time afterward out of fear she might lash out again until Steven finally freed her again in "Made of Honor" to rejoin the team permanently. After her return, Bismuth unintentionally begins taking on a mentor role for Steven, warning him to be wary of the Diamonds prior to his journey to Homeworld, restoring his hope after the rest of the Crystal Gems were rejuvenated in Steven Universe: The Movie, and reminding him to be proud of his unusual traits because he's a Crystal Gem in "Bismuth Casual". Bismuth has also since resumed her role as a blacksmith and resides at Little Homeworld with Peridot and Lapis Lazuli after building a large majority of it. Additionally, Bismuth has developed romantic feelings for Pearl, who seems to be unaware of but not opposed to this attraction. 

 Lapis Lazuli, or Lapis for short, is a member of the Crystal Gems. During her alignment with the Gem Homeworld, she was caught in the crossfire of The Rebellion and got poofed by Bismuth so Homeworld mistook her for one of the Crystal Gems and imprisoned her within a magical mirror. She would remain in the mirror for thousands of years until she eventually convinced Steven to free her. Once she returned to Homeworld she was forced back to Earth by Peridot and Jasper, the latter of whom she fused with into Malachite to imprison, protecting Steven and taking her own anger out on. After she unfused and decided she had no other choice but to live on Earth, as she trapped a highly regarded soldier, she lived at The Barn with the reformed Peridot until the threat of another war became a reality. She left Earth and took the Barn with her to the Moon until Steven found her and convinced her to come back but she decided to leave the Moon after he had another vision of The Great Diamond Authority. However, she returned to Earth to fight against the Diamonds in "Reunited" becoming a Crystal Gem in the process. She made her debut in "Mirror Gem". Years later, she now lives with Bismuth and Peridot in Little Homeworld. She is shown to be more cheerful throughout the movie though still retains a dark sense of humor, like when she jokingly claims to still be on the fence when they talk about how long it took for them to stop wanting to hurt Steven. 

 Connie Maheswaran is Steven Universe's best friend-turned-girlfriend and a member of the Crystal Gems who debuted in the episode "Bubble Buddies". After meeting Steven, she slowly began to learn about him, the Gems, and their past. Growing a strong bond with them, Connie decided that she wanted to help him and the Crystal Gems whenever danger arose in the Earth, training how to fight using a sword with Pearl since "Sworn to the Sword". She eventually becomes a skilled combatant and often aids the Gems during times of conflict. Years later, Connie begins to devote most of her time to studying and applying to colleges. She sticks by Steven's side as he deals with his years' worth of suppressed trauma. After helping Steven cope, Steven and Connie decide to meet up with each other as she tours the country on college tours, and he tours the world to find himself. It is revealed that the two are officially dating by the end of the series. 

 Lion is a magical pink lion befriended by Steven that occasionally assists the Crystal Gems. Once a normal lion (presumably owned by Rose Quartz in the desert hundreds of years ago), Lion eventually died through unknown means. Rose Quartz was able to resurrect Lion through her healing powers, giving Lion pink fur and magical abilities. After being entrusted with many of Rose's belongings, Lion roamed the desert alone following Rose's departure until eventually being found by Steven. 

 Rose Quartz, or Rose for short, was the founder and former leader of the Crystal Gems. Enthralled by the beauty of Earth, she led her friends and allies in a rebellion against the Gem Homeworld around 5,500 years before the events of the series successfully driving invading Gems off the planet and saving the life forms inhabiting it. Unbeknownst to others her identity as Rose Quartz was a facade to hide her true identity as Pink Diamond, only entrusting Pearl with the truth until its revelation thousands of years later. Rose later developed a romantic relationship with the human Greg Universe before giving up her physical form to give birth to their son Steven who inherited her gemstone, making her part of Steven. 

 Pink Diamond was a Homeworld Gem and a member of the Great Diamond Authority that continued to rule over the Gem race in her absence. Originally in charge of Earth's colonization, she took the form of a Rose Quartz after her fellow Diamonds refused to allow her to abandon the colony and spare the life on the planet. As her plans escalated into an all-out war Pink faked her own shattering in an effort to finally drive Homeworld away from Earth, taking on Rose's appearance as her default form since then. Her original form first appeared through a mural in "It Could've Been Great" and later a reflection in "Jungle Moon", making an official debut in "A Single Pale Rose". 

 The Great Diamond Authority was the matriarchal body of Gem leaders. Its membership consisted of White Diamond, Yellow Diamond, Blue Diamond, and, prior to Era 2, Pink Diamond. They were once the absolute ruling power over the Gem Homeworld and its remaining active colonies until the beginning of Era 3 and their replacement through democratic elections. Despite this, the Diamonds still seem to retain their status as leaders on Homeworld, even if to a lesser extent. Even still retaining some influence over Homeworld, the Diamonds have begun dedicating themselves to helping Gems through their new specialties. 

 White Diamond, or White for short, is a Homeworld Gem and the leader of the Great Diamond Authority that formerly ruled over the Gem race. She held supreme authority over all Gems, including her fellow Diamonds, and was seen as a being beyond the rest of her kind. For eons, White Diamond remained on the Gem Homeworld, secluded inside her ship, until she finally left Homeworld to help Steven Universe heal the corrupted Gems. She made her debut in "Legs From Here to Homeworld". With the beginning of Era 3 and the abolition of the Great Diamond Authority's tyranny, White Diamond started dedicating her time to help Gems with their self-worth problems by using a reversed version of her powers, allowing them to take control over her so that they can get in contact with their own selves. 

 Yellow Diamond, or Yellow for short, is a Homeworld Gem and a member of the Great Diamond Authority that formerly ruled over the Gem race. In particular, she commanded her now-disbanded military and oversaw Gem production on her colonies. She was first shown in the extended theme song before making her official debut in "Message Received". As a result of Era 3, Yellow now works to repair Gems she had previously shattered in her Cluster experiments and wishes to use her powers to help other Gems alter their physical form if they choose to do so. 

 Blue Diamond, or Blue for short, is a Homeworld Gem and a member of the Great Diamond Authority that formerly ruled over the Gem race. She first appears in a flashback in "The Answer" and debuts in person in "Steven's Dream". As a result of Era 3, Blue Diamond now uses her powers to bring joy to other Gems through her clouds, created from her vaporized tears, which make someone happy once coming into contact with them. 

 Spinel is the main antagonist of Steven Universe: The Movie and a supporting character in Steven Universe Future. She was created 6,000 years prior to the events of the movie to comfort the lonely Pink Diamond who had lost her first Pearl to White Diamond. The two would play in Pink's garden until she was finally given a colony. At this point, Pink outgrew Spinel and abandoned her under the guise of playing a game by having Spinel stand alone for thousands of years while Pink never returned. After discovering this through Steven's message to the universe she went to Earth with full intent to destroy all organic life forms as a way of getting revenge. After making amends with Steven and the Crystal Gems, the Diamonds take her back to live with them on Homeworld. Now reformed and free, she is still living with the Diamonds, living a less destructive and aggressive life. 

 The Crystal Gems, also referred to as the Rebels, are a group of Gems established by Pink Diamond under the guise of Rose Quartz. Unlike the rest of their kind, they seek to protect Earth instead of exploiting it and are the self-proclaimed guardians of humanity. Their title distinguishes them from Homeworld Gems, who are their opposites and the ones they fight against.  

  Fusion Gems are the product of multiple Gems (or half-Gems, who can fuse with both Gems and humans). Fusions are formed when the participants are emotionally harmonious with each other. This state can be spontaneous, but it is usually achieved deliberately through a synchronized dance. 

 Stevonnie is the fusion of Steven Universe and Connie Maheswaran. They formed for the very first time in their debut episode, "Alone Together". 

 Rhodonite is the unaligned fusion of an unknown Ruby and Pearl[1] who made her debut in "Off Colors". Her components once belonged to a Morganite but were replaced after it was discovered that they enjoyed fusing. She would then travel through space on board the Sun Incinerator with the rest of the Off Colors, before landing in Beach City in the episode, "Change Your Mind". After the events of "Little Graduation", she and the rest of the Off Colors have returned to space. 

 Obsidian is the fusion of Garnet (and by extension Ruby and Sapphire), Amethyst, Pearl, and Steven Universe. They formed for the very first time in their debut episode, "Change Your Mind". 

 Rainbow Quartz, also referred to as Rainbow (Quartz) 2.0 in order to differentiate themselves from the original Rainbow Quartz, is the fusion of Steven Universe and Pearl. They made their reformed debut in "Change Your Mind". 

 Steg is the fusion of Steven and Greg Universe. He debuted in Steven Universe: The Movie. 

 Earth, also known as "Crystal System Colony Planet Earth", is an abandoned Gem colony planet and the primary location of Steven Universe and Steven Universe Future. Earth contains many native species, with the dominant species being humans. This Earth exists in an alternate universe, and while it is apparently similar, there are many differences. 

 Beach City is the primary location in the Steven Universe franchise. It is situated in Beach County  in the fictional state of Delmarva, in the 443 area code, on the East Coast of the United States. 

 The Gem Homeworld, or simply Homeworld, is the home planet of the Gem race and presumed capital of the Gems' intergalactic empire. It was initially mentioned in "Mirror Gem", and officially debuted in "The Trial". 

 Gems are an extraterrestrial species of "magical", roughly humanoid beings that play a key role in the Steven Universe franchise. 5,750 years ago, the Gem Homeworld maintained several outposts on Earth, with plans to completely colonize the planet, but were driven off by Rose Quartz's rebellion, leaving the Crystal Gems (and various Corrupted Gems) as the only remaining Gems on the planet. As of Era 3, they are no longer under control of the Great Diamond Authority and the Gem Empire, free to choose their endeavors and purpose without the Caste System. 

 Before Era 3, the Gem Homeworld maintained a strict Caste System with gemstones having predetermined roles, places, privileges and ordained purposes in the social pyramid, and Gems who deviated from this were considered defective. Since penalties were severe, disgruntled Homeworld Gems kept to themselves or went into hiding. Because there were so many of each Gem-type (except Diamonds), all Gems normally distinguished themselves via serial numbers. The Caste System was divided under the rule of the Diamonds and other Homeworld elites; if Gems were to greet or refer to others in higher sections of the Caste System, they normally prefaced their Gem name with "My" to show they were their superior(s). As of the time between "Change Your Mind" and Steven Universe: The Movie and around Unleash the Light, both it and the Gem Empire had been officially dismantled. 

 The Diamond Ships are the gigantic personal spacecraft of the Diamonds. Each one has been shown to resemble a body part, with Yellow and Blue Diamond's ships being arms, Pink Diamond's ship being hips and legs, and White Diamond's ship being a torso and head. These ships can also form and connect together, creating the Diamond Mech, which resembles a gigantic robot body with many abilities.  

 Limb Enhancers are mechanical tools crafted on the Gem Homeworld and given to Era 2 Peridots who lack powers, as well as gems who are not their intended height, such as Amethyst. They were formerly worn by Peridot. She wore them throughout most of her early appearances, and were confirmed to be separate body parts from her physical form in the episode "Catch and Release". The limb enhancers (excluding her left foot, which Steven returned to her in "Catch and Release") are currently lost underwater near the Galaxy Warp, after having been disposed of by Amethyst by being thrown into the water. Without them, she is harmless, as said by Pearl. Demantoid, an Era 2 Garnet, wears limb enchancers as well, to compensate for her short size. However, unlike other limb enchancers, they have been modified by her to the point where they almost resemble a mech of sorts. 

 Spinel's Injector was a massive construct designed to inject a toxic biological substance into the earth which destroys all life it comes in contact with. Spinel brought the injector to Earth to take revenge against Steven Universe and the other Crystal Gems after she was abandoned by Pink Diamond. Within a fit of rage, Spinel forced it further into the ground, making it explode and forcing the town to need to be saved by Alexandrite. 

 A Gem Destabilizer is a Gem Weapon designed to dissipate a Gem's physical form. The yellow Destabilizer appears to have been modeled on Yellow Diamond's power to generate a lightning bolt-current that paralyzes and poofs Gems. 

 Injectors are Gem machines that are used to embed nascent Gems into the crust of a planet, where they would gestate before emerging. The Injectors on Earth are currently scattered all around the Kindergartens in a state of disrepair. 

 Observation Orbs are devices that the Diamonds use to watch activity on their colonies from afar. The one meant for observing the Earth made a cameo appearance in "It Could've Been Great" and reappeared in "Can't Go Back". Another observation orb is shown in the episode "Jungle Moon". Observation orbs are presumably located on the second floor of any given moon base. 

 Gem weapons are typically physical weapons summoned from a Gems's gemstone. Each weapon is highly personalized and unique, being specifically tailored after the tastes and personality of the Gem summoning it to the point where they cease being weapons at all: Rose Quartz and Steven's loving, protective nature is reflected by their shield as well as their phytokinesis and healing abilities. Other examples include Pearl's precision and accuracy represented through her spear and Garnet's gauntlets referencing her courageous personality. The weapons have strong bonds with their users who can easily summon them by pure will alone; this is stable enough to allow Gems to seemingly create copies of their weapons for dual-wielding or ranged attacks. The same bond also results in the weapons vanishing if a Gem's physical form is destroyed and they are forced to retreat into their gemstones. An example is when Jasper used a Gem Destabilizer on Garnet in "The Return" and Garnet's gauntlets vanished along with her. As seen in "Bismuth", Gem weapons can be upgraded and/or modified by adding components to their base. For example, Garnet's modifications seem to consist of knuckles attached to her gauntlets. They seem to persist and become part of the weapon itself, as the next time Gems summon their weapons they can clearly be seen with upgrades (Amethyst's whip, for example). Summoning upgraded weapons is optional as Amethyst, Garnet, and Pearl can summon either version of their weapons after they were upgraded. Fusion Gems typically wield a combined form of their components' weapons or the separate arsenals of the Gems composing them. 

 The Cluster is a massive Cluster Gem buried inside of the Earth's core that was first mentioned in "Jail Break" and first seen in "Gem Drill". It is composed of millions of Gem shards and, in its emerged form, would be larger than the Earth. It assisted Steven in bubbling itself in "Gem Drill" and remained dormant in the Earth's mantle until it was disrupted by the ships of Yellow Diamond and Blue Diamond in "Reunited", after which it partially emerged to help the Crystal Gems. As of "Homeworld Bound", Yellow Diamond vows to restore as many shattered Gems inside of the Cluster as she can. 

 The Gem Rejuvenator is a Gem Weapon first used by Spinel in Steven Universe: The Movie possessing the ability to strip Gems of their memories causing them to revert to their original selves. This effect is not permanent however, able to be reversed by reminding Gems of their true selves. 

 The Light Prism is an item in the Steven Universe video games Attack the Light, Save the Light, and Unleash the Light. Light Prisms were given to high-ranking Gems like Garnets. The Light Prism contains an army of all visible light. When one was first released by Steven in Attack the Light, the light took the form of White Light. Once the prism was damaged by Garnet, the light split off into 7 colors. The prism was then used to capture the light monsters. The Light Prism returns in Save the Light where it is stolen by its former owner Hessonite. The same Prism returns in Unleash the Light as an ally of the Crystal Gems and with the nickname of "George," along with two more Prisms owned by Demantoid and Pyrope. 

 Connie's Sword is a weapon forged by Bismuth, belonging to Connie Maheswaran. Bismuth made the sword for Connie and gave it to her in "Change Your Mind" when they were trying to keep the hands of the Diamond Mech off Obsidian. 

 Rose's Sword was a weapon forged by Bismuth that formerly belonged to Rose Quartz. It was discovered by Steven and Connie in "Lion 2: The Movie". After its rediscovery, the sword was mainly wielded by Connie, as well as Stevonnie, and would usually be stored inside of Lion's pocket dimension with its scabbard. It was destroyed by Blue Diamond in "Reunited", with only the handle left intact, while the blade is given a new one for Connie to hold it. In Steven Universe Future, it can be seen on a stand on a high shelf. 

 The Breaking Point was a weapon created by Bismuth to give the Crystal Gems an advantage against Homeworld's Army. Steven destroys the weapon in the lava at the Forge after poofing Bismuth in her eponymous episode. 

 Pearl's Swords are swords used by Pearl, Connie, Holo-Pearl, and Holo-Connie. 

 The Quartizine Trio is a trio of Laser Light Cannons which belonged to Rose Quartz that first appeared in "Lion 2: The Movie". Their history and connection with the original light cannon are unknown, although they are activated with the same phrase: "If every pork chop were perfect, we wouldn't have hot dogs." 

 The Shooting Star is a Gem artifact that first appeared in "Monster Buddies". It is seen again in "Winter Forecast", as a tool that the Crystal Gems attempted to destroy the Galaxy Warp with so Homeworld Gems couldn't reach the Earth. 

 Gemstones are the core components of any Gem. They appear as literal gemstones in various cuts, shapes, and colors, located randomly on any Gem's physical form. 

 The Obelisk is a structure that held the corrupted Albite powering the Pyramid Temple.

 The Desert Glass is a Gem embedded inside a pillow. It first made an appearance in "Steven's Lion". 

 Warp pads are teleportation devices created and utilized by Gems. It was first seen being used by the Crystal Gems in the Pilot, but the warp pads debuted officially in "Gem Glow". 

 The Evil Spirit Scroll is a scroll that housed the Smoke Monster that first appeared in the episode "Together Breakfast". 

 Gem Shards or simply Shards are the remnants of shattered gemstones. Groups of shards usually include pieces from multiple Gems. They first appeared in "Frybo" and continued to appear in "Secret Team", "Keeping It Together", "Nightmare Hospital", "When It Rains" and "Gem Drill". They are the shattered remains of broken Gems that still contain remnants of the Gem's original form when they are free from bubbles. The shards have different abilities such as possessing material objects and can be forcibly fused to create mutated Cluster Gems. 

 Corrupted Gems, also known as Gem Monsters, were Gems who had become corrupted assuming monstrous and nigh-incoherent forms. One of the main objectives of the Crystal Gems other than their protection of humanity and Earth was to defeat, contain corrupted Gems and hopefully cure. In "Change Your Mind" many corrupted Gems were healed when Steven and The Great Diamond Authority combined their powers at Rose's Fountain. In Steven Universe: The Movie and Steven Universe Future, many uncorrupted Gems could be seen living at Little Homeworld. 

 The Corrupting Light was a cataclysmic event and final assault against the Crystal Gems by the remaining members of the Great Diamond Authority. The attack was intended to obliterate all Gems on Earth; however, it instead resulted in the corruption of almost every Gem on the planet. This attack marked the end of the Rebellion. While intended to only be used against the Crystal Gems, some Homeworld Gems, such as Nephrite and her crew, were also caught in the crossfire because they were stranded on Earth when it was unleashed. The light was first shown in "Same Old World" and later seen in the episode "Monster Reunion" in greater detail. The light is composed of blue, white, and yellow rays, the colors of the three current Diamonds. Given Yellow Diamond's ability to disrupt Gem bodies, Blue Diamond's ability to overwrite Gem emotions and White Diamond's ability to overpower Gem minds, the Corrupting Light's effect may represent a combination of the worst parts of their abilities - warped bodies, broken minds, and rampant emotions. 

 "Bubbling" is the process where a Gem encases a specific object inside a bubble via contact or energy projection, and either takes it with them or transfers it to a different location. Items and Gems that are bubbled remain inactive until released. When a bubbled Gem is released, they instantly regenerate with seemingly no mental problems or awareness of their time contained as seen with the Centipeetle Mother, Peridot, and Bismuth. 

 Finn Mertens (also called Finn the Human, Pen in the original short, and identified as P-G-8-7 Mertens) is one of the main characters in Adventure Time. 

 Princess Bonnibel "Bonnie" Bubblegum (often called PB and occasionally Peebles or P-Bubs) is one of the main characters of the series Adventure Time and first appeared in the animated short. Princess Bubblegum is the current incarnation of the Candy Elemental, comparable to the inhabitants of the Candy Kingdom, who are all composed of types of desserts and candies. She rules over the Candy Kingdom, but in the Season 6 episode "Hot Diggity Doom" (the first part of the season's finale), an election was held and she lost to the King of Ooo by a landslide. As a result, she no longer ruled the Candy Kingdom and the King of Ooo replaced her as the new ruler until a rebellion against King of Ooo allowed her to reclaim the throne in "The Dark Cloud." 

 Marceline (full title: Marceline the Vampire Queen) is one of the main characters in Adventure Time and the main protagonist of Stakes. Marceline is a fun-loving 1,000-year-old vampire queen. Unlike a traditional vampire, Marceline does not need to drink blood to survive; rather, she eats the color red. Marceline is also an avid musician who plays an electric bass that she made from her family's heirloom battle-axe. She is currently in a romantic relationship with Princess Bubblegum, something revealed to the audience during the episode "Come Along With Me". 

 Jake (full title: Jake the Dog) is one of the main characters of Adventure Time. He is a dog/shape-shifter hybrid, referred to by others as a "magical dog," and Finn's constant companion, best friend, and adoptive brother. Jake has a unique set of abilities called Stretchy Powers that allow him to manipulate the shape and size of his body, coming in handy on innumerable occasions throughout his and Finn's adventures. Jake was 28 years old at his debut in "magical dog years," and ages throughout the series, though he rarely acts mature. It is inferred that magical dogs have a lifespan similar to Humans, as demonstrated by an aged Jake in "Dungeon Train." Then again, how exactly magical dog years correlate to human years remains to be seen, although both Finn and Jake were shown to be babies around the same time, showing that they age slightly faster, however, his age as of "Joshua and Margaret Investigations" suggests that it slows down to the rate of human's aging at some point. Jake is currently in a relationship with Lady Rainicorn, and, by "Jake the Dad," they are the parents of five Rainicorn-dog hybrids. 

 Dogs are a species in Adventure Time.

 The Candy People are the primary citizens of the Candy Kingdom, created and ruled by Princess Bubblegum.

 The Candy Kingdom is a post-war state located within the Land of Ooo. It is entirely made up of candy and is primarily inhabited by the Candy People. The kingdom was founded by Princess Bubblegum hundreds of years before the events of Adventure Time and it was under her reign for a long time (except when she was too young to rule and Earl of Lemongrab was, as of "Too Young", regent) until "Hot Diggity Doom" due to losing an election to King of Ooo. She would eventually reclaim her throne after King of Ooo is rebelled against by the Candy People in "The Dark Cloud". The kingdom is one of the largest civilizations in Ooo as it is well-developed and even has interests in the affairs of the other kingdoms. In "Red Starved," Princess Bubblegum refers to the kingdom as an "eternal empire."

 The Land of Ooo is the main setting of Adventure Time. It is the home of Finn, Jake, and all their friends and foes. It is divided into many different kingdoms, of which the most prominent are the Ice Kingdom, Candy Kingdom, Castle Lemongrab, Wildberry Kingdom, Lumpy Space, Fire Kingdom, and the Cloud Kingdom. There are also many geographical areas not known to be part of any kingdom, such as the Evil Forest and the Bad Lands.

 The Ice Kingdom is a setting in Adventure Time. It comprises of many pointy, snow-capped mountains, as well as several snowy hills. It is the location of the Ice King's castle as well as home to a variety of ice-themed creatures. This is where the animated short takes place and is also the place that the princesses are held captive in "Prisoners of Love." The Ice Kingdom's population is fairly sparse, especially compared to other kingdoms in Ooo. The population consists mostly of penguins, with the occasional elemental creatures conjured by the Ice King himself. The Ice Kingdom is bordered on at least one side by water, as shown in "Evicted!," and is visible from Finn and Jake's Tree Fort. The entire kingdom is destroyed in "Frost & Fire" by Flame Princess, but subsequently rebuilt by Gunter, and the Ice King moved back to his kingdom in "Play Date."

 Simon Petrikov, formerly known as the Ice King, is a major character conceived to be, but no longer acting as the main antagonist of Adventure Time. Originally depicted as a two-dimensional, humorously over-the-top villain trying to kidnap Princess Bubblegum on a regular basis, the character's personality was subsequently expanded, revealing him to be a kind-hearted but misunderstood old man with completely twisted senses of morality and social behavior, suffering from loneliness and memory loss. Later seasons unveil his tragic backstory, revealing he was once a good human named Simon Petrikov who lost his mind, memories and loved ones due to the magic crown giving him his ice powers. Simon Petrikov, formerly known as the Ice King, is a major character conceived to be, but no longer acting as the main antagonist of Adventure Time. Originally depicted as a two-dimensional, humorously over-the-top villain trying to kidnap Princess Bubblegum on a regular basis, the character's personality was subsequently expanded, revealing him to be a kind-hearted but misunderstood old man with completely twisted senses of morality and social behavior, suffering from loneliness and memory loss. Later seasons unveil his tragic backstory, revealing he was once a good human named Simon Petrikov who lost his mind, memories and loved ones due to the magic crown giving him his ice powers. 

 BMO (abbreviated from "Be MOre," phonetically spelled "Beemo", also referred to as Moe Mastro "Llabtoof" Giovanni Jr. and called the "New King of Ooo" in the future) is one of the main characters of Adventure Time and also the titular main protagonist of the Distant Lands episode of the same name. BMO is Finn and Jake's living video game console system, portable electrical outlet, computer, music player, VCR, video player, video editor, roommate, camera, alarm clock, toaster, flashlight, strobe light, skateboarder, soccer player, tape player, chef, detective, and friend. They make their appearance in the title scene of the Theme Song of every episode of Adventure Time, just as Finn and Jake pound their fists together. BMO is characterized as a loyal, trusting and helpful robot who is protective of Finn and Jake. 

 Lumpy Space Princess (possibly known as Lumpy Space Queen and often referred to by her initials, LSP) is the queen of Lumpy Space. She is one of the three most recurring princesses, the other two being Flame Princess and Princess Bubblegum. Finn and Jake have traveled to Lumpy Space as well as to her parents' residence after she accidentally bit Jake in "Trouble in Lumpy Space." According to the events in "Princess Day," she is not recognized by the chair of princesses, partially because of her dramatic attitude and the fact that she is no longer the heir to Lumpy Space. Since the episode "To Cut a Woman's Hair," Lumpy Space Princess lived on her own in the woods of Ooo. According to her story in "The Monster," she lived among wolves, was banished, and began terrorizing a small village in order to eat their crops. She had returned to Lumpy Space, but as of "Princess Monster Wife," she decided to go back to living on her own in the woods as a hobo, presumably going back home every now and again to visit her parents. At the end of "Come Along With Me," she is crowned queen of Lumpy Space.

 Lady Rainicorn is a female Rainicorn and is Princess Bubblegum's royal steed, best friend, and companion. She is also Jake's girlfriend, and sometimes follows Finn and Jake on their adventures. She only speaks Korean, speaking English only when equipped with a universal translator device (however, she is shown to have spoken a bit of English in "Lady & Peebles" "I am pregnant!"). Princess Bubblegum, Lady's children, Jake, and Root Beer Guy are the only other beings in the Land of Ooo, besides Lady's parents, that are shown to understand Korean. Finn directly refers to the language she speaks as Korean in "The Pit." In "Lady & Peebles," Lady revealed that she is pregnant; this was confirmed by Princess Bubblegum. In "Jake the Dad," she becomes a mother to five rainbow puppies. In the version of the program that is broadcast in Korea, Lady Rainicorn's dialogue – along with that of all the other characters – is in Korean, but the narrative nonetheless presumes her to be speaking a different language from the other characters, and her voice has both reverberant and polyphonous qualities added to it in order to differentiate it. Somewhat interestingly, the exact phrasing of Lady Rainicorn's lines often varies somewhat between the American and Korean versions of the program. For instance, in the American version of the episode "Jake Suit," when Jake arrives at their home while controlling Finn's body, Lady Rainicorn asks Jake in Korean, "Why are you in Finn's body?" In the Korean version of the episode, she asks of Jake in the same line of the same scene, "Why are you in Finn's throat?" 

 The Enchiridion (which translates to "The Handbook" or "The Manual") was an ancient book with codes of conduct, guidelines, and other helpful information for heroes. The book had great power which allowed it to tear open worm holes between dimensions in the multiverse. It was broken into pieces after turning to stone by Finn in "The Lich" in order to stop the Lich from gaining access to the multiverse, but, as it turned out, by doing this Finn made the portal to the multiverse. (See "The Lich" for more details.) It was revealed in "Winter Light" that while Finn and Jake were in the Farmworld Dimension during the events of "Crossover," Finn brought the Enchiridion from that timeline back with him. 

 Knife storms are similar to normal storms, but instead of water, daggers rain down. One occurs in the episode "Rainy Day Daydream." They are apparently rare, as Finn claims never to have seen one before (though Jake already knew what it was). Right before Jake pulls him into the Tree Fort for shelter, Finn calls the storm "beautiful." A knife storm also occurs in the episode "Puhoy" (three years later in-show). In both occasions, Finn and Jake are confined to their Tree Fort, forced to come up with ways to pass the time. In "Rainy Day Daydream," Finn and Jake use their imaginations to create a Bazooka Goblin, a Riddle Master, an Imagination machine, and more. In "Puhoy," Jake builds Finn a pillow fort during the storm, unknowingly giving Finn access to Pillow World. 

 Murder is the unlawful killing of another human without justification or valid excuse, especially the unlawful killing of another human with malice aforethought. This state of mind may, depending upon the jurisdiction, distinguish murder from other forms of unlawful homicide, such as manslaughter. Manslaughter is killing committed in the absence of malice, brought about by reasonable provocation, or diminished capacity. Involuntary manslaughter, where it is recognized, is a killing that lacks all but the most attenuated guilty intent, recklessness. Most societies consider murder to be an extremely serious crime, and thus that a person convicted of murder should receive harsh punishments for the purposes of retribution, deterrence, rehabilitation, or incapacitation. In most countries, a person convicted of murder generally faces a long-term prison sentence, possibly a life sentence, and in a few, the death penalty may be imposed.

 Homicide is the act of one human killing another. A homicide requires only a volitional act by another person that results in death, and thus a homicide may result from accidental, reckless, or negligent acts even if there is no intent to cause harm. Homicides can be divided into many overlapping legal categories, including murder, manslaughter, justifiable homicide, killing in war (either following the laws of war or as a war crime), euthanasia, and capital punishment, depending on the circumstances of the death. These different types of homicides are often treated very differently in human societies; some are considered crimes, while others are permitted or even ordered by the legal system.

 Capital punishment, also known as the death penalty, is a government-sanctioned practice whereby a person is put to death by the state as a punishment for a crime. The sentence ordering that someone be punished in such a manner is referred to as a death sentence, whereas the act of carrying out such a sentence is known as an execution. A prisoner who has been sentenced to death and is awaiting execution is referred to as condemned, and is said in some countries to be on "death row". Crimes that are punishable by death are known as capital crimes, capital offences or capital felonies, and vary depending on the jurisdiction, but commonly include serious offences such as murder, mass murder, aggravated cases of rape, child rape, child sexual abuse, terrorism, treason, espionage, sedition, offences against the State (such as attempting to overthrow government), piracy, aircraft hijacking, drug trafficking, drug dealing and drug possession, war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, and in some cases, the most serious acts of recidivism, aggravated robbery, and kidnapping. Etymologically, the term capital (lit. "of the head", derived via the Latin capitalis from caput, "head") in this context alluded to execution by beheading. Fifty-six countries retain capital punishment, 106 countries have completely abolished it de jure for all crimes, eight have abolished it for ordinary crimes (while maintaining it for special circumstances such as war crimes), and 28 are abolitionist in practice. Although most nations have abolished capital punishment, over 60% of the world's population live in countries where the death penalty is retained, such as China, India, the United States, Indonesia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Iran, and among almost all Islamic countries, as well as in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Sri Lanka. China is believed to execute more people than all other countries combined. Capital punishment is a matter of active controversy in several countries and states, and positions can vary within a single political ideology or cultural region. In the European Union (EU), Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prohibits the use of capital punishment. The Council of Europe, which has 47 member states, has sought to abolish the use of the death penalty by its members absolutely, through Protocol 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, this only affects those member states which have signed and ratified it, and they do not include Armenia, Russia, and Azerbaijan. The United Nations General Assembly has adopted, in 2007, 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014, non-binding resolutions calling for a global moratorium on executions, with a view to eventual abolition.

 In criminal law, kidnapping is the unlawful transportation, asportation and confinement of a person against their will. Thus, it is a composite crime. It can also be defined as false imprisonment by means of abduction, both of which are separate crimes that when committed simultaneously upon the same person merge as the single crime of kidnapping. The asportation/abduction element is typically but not necessarily conducted by means of force or fear. That is, the perpetrator may use a weapon to force the victim into a vehicle, but it is still kidnapping if the victim is enticed to enter the vehicle willingly, e.g., in the belief it is a taxicab. Kidnapping may be done to demand for ransom in exchange for releasing the victim, or for other illegal purposes. Kidnapping can be accompanied by bodily injury which elevates the crime to aggravated kidnapping. Kidnapping of a child is also known as child abduction, and these are sometimes separate legal categories. 

 Kidnapping in China has its history since the ancient times. Such issues have been heavily studied and discussed by investigators and researchers. Since at least the 1980s, kidnapping has become a bigger issue than ever in the country. Since the 1990s, tougher laws against the kidnapping have been established. Chinese authorities have also investigated in this regard. 

 Groom kidnapping, colloquially known as Pakaruah shaadi or Jabaria shaadi, is a phenomenon in the western parts of Bihar, and eastern Uttar Pradesh states in India, wherein eligible bachelors are abducted by the bride's family and later forcibly married, to avoid heavy dowry costs. Considering the traditional regard for the marriage sacrament, most such marriages are not annulled. Additionally, the groom may suffer criminal charges under Indian dowry law, and end up fighting lengthy legal battles. The practice started becoming noticeable towards the late 20th century, as dowry costs became prohibitive and organised gangs came forward to carry out the abductions. In 2009, 1224 kidnappings for marriage were reported in Bihar, carried out on behalf of the families of the brides.

 Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is the 45th and current president of the United States. Before entering politics, he was a businessman and television personality. Born and raised in Queens, New York City, Trump attended Fordham University for two years and received a bachelor's degree in economics from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He became president of his father's real estate business in 1971, renamed it The Trump Organization, and expanded its operations to building or renovating skyscrapers, hotels, casinos, and golf courses. Trump later started various side ventures, mostly by licensing his name. Trump and his businesses have been involved in more than 4,000 state and federal legal actions, including six bankruptcies. He owned the Miss Universe brand of beauty pageants from 1996 to 2015, and produced and hosted the reality television series The Apprentice from 2003 to 2015. Trump's political positions have been described as populist, protectionist, isolationist, and nationalist. He entered the 2016 presidential race as a Republican and was elected in a surprise electoral college victory over Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton while losing the popular vote. He became the oldest first-term U.S. president and the first without prior military or government service. His election and policies have sparked numerous protests. Trump has made many false or misleading statements during his campaign and presidency. The statements have been documented by fact-checkers, and the media have widely described the phenomenon as unprecedented in American politics. Many of his comments and actions have been characterized as racially charged or racist. During his presidency, Trump ordered a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries, citing security concerns; after legal challenges, the Supreme Court upheld the policy's third revision. He enacted a tax-cut package for individuals and businesses, rescinding the individual health insurance mandate penalty of the Affordable Care Act, but has failed to repeal and replace the ACA as a whole. He appointed Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. In foreign policy, Trump has pursued an America First agenda, withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade negotiations, the Paris Agreement on climate change, and the Iran nuclear deal. He imposed import tariffs which triggered a trade war with China, moved the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem and withdrew U.S. troops from northern Syria. Trump met three times with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, but talks on denuclearization broke down in 2019. Trump reacted slowly to the COVID-19 pandemic; he minimized the threat, ignored or contradicted many recommendations from health officials, and promoted false information about unproven treatments and the availability of testing. A special counsel investigation led by Robert Mueller found that Trump and his campaign welcomed and encouraged Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election under the belief that it would be politically advantageous, but did not find sufficient evidence to press charges of criminal conspiracy or coordination with Russia. Mueller also investigated Trump for obstruction of justice, and his report neither indicted nor exonerated Trump on that offense. After Trump solicited Ukraine to investigate his political rival Joe Biden, the House of Representatives impeached him in December 2019 for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. The Senate acquitted him of both charges in February 2020. 

 Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. (/ˌrɒbɪˈnɛt ˈbaɪdən/ ROB-ih-NET BY-dən; born November 20, 1942) is an American politician who served as the 47th vice president of the United States from 2009 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, he served as a United States Senator for Delaware from 1973 to 2009. Biden is the Democratic presidential nominee for the 2020 election, running against the incumbent, President Donald Trump. Biden was raised in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and New Castle County, Delaware. He studied at the University of Delaware before receiving his law degree from Syracuse University. He became a lawyer in 1969 and was elected to the New Castle County Council in 1970. He was elected to the U.S. Senate from Delaware in 1972, becoming the sixth-youngest senator in American history. Biden was a longtime member and eventually chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He opposed the Gulf War in 1991 but supported the expansion of the NATO alliance into Eastern Europe and its intervention in the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990s. He supported the resolution authorizing the Iraq War in 2002 but opposed the surge of U.S. troops in 2007. He also served as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee from 1987 to 1995, dealing with issues related to drug policy, crime prevention, and civil liberties. Biden led the efforts to pass the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act and the Violence Against Women Act, and oversaw six U.S. Supreme Court confirmation hearings, including the contentious hearings for Robert Bork and Clarence Thomas. Biden ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988 and 2008. Biden was reelected six times to the U.S. Senate and was the fourth-most senior senator when he resigned after winning the vice presidency alongside Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election. Obama and Biden were reelected in 2012. As Vice President, Biden oversaw infrastructure spending in 2009 to counteract the Great Recession. His negotiations with congressional Republicans helped the Obama administration pass legislation including the 2010 Tax Relief Act, which resolved a taxation deadlock; the Budget Control Act of 2011, which resolved a debt ceiling crisis; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which addressed the impending fiscal cliff. In foreign policy, Biden led the efforts to pass the United States–Russia New START treaty, supported military intervention in Libya, and helped formulate U.S. policy toward Iraq through the withdrawal of U.S. troops in 2011. Following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, Biden led the Gun Violence Task Force, created to address the causes of gun violence in the United States. In October 2015, Biden announced that he would not seek the presidency in the 2016 election. In January 2017, Obama awarded Biden the Presidential Medal of Freedom with distinction. Biden announced his 2020 candidacy for president on April 25, 2019, and in June 2020, he met the 1,991-delegate threshold needed to secure the Democratic Party's nomination. On August 11, 2020, Biden announced U.S. Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate in the 2020 presidential election.

 Alexander Robert Hirsch (born June 18, 1985) is an American animator, voice actor, writer, storyboard artist, and producer. He is the creator of the Disney Channel series Gravity Falls, for which he provided the voices of Grunkle Stan, Soos, and Bill Cipher, among others. He also earned BAFTA and Annie Awards for the series. In 2016, Hirsch co-authored Gravity Falls: Journal 3 which debuted as a No. 1 New York Times Best Seller and remained on The New York Times Best Seller list for forty-seven weeks. In 2018, Hirsch wrote Gravity Falls: Lost Legends which also appeared on The New York Times Best Seller list.

 Gravity Falls is an American animated mystery comedy television series created by Alex Hirsch for Disney Channel and Disney XD. The series ran from June 15, 2012, to February 15, 2016. The series follows the adventures of Dipper Pines (voiced by Jason Ritter) and his twin sister Mabel (voiced by Kristen Schaal) who are sent to spend the summer with their great-uncle (or "Grunkle") Stan (voiced by Hirsch) in Gravity Falls, Oregon, a mysterious town full of paranormal forces and supernatural creatures. The kids help Stan run "the Mystery Shack", the tourist trap which he owns, while also investigating the local mysteries. On November 20, 2015, Hirsch announced that the series would finish with its second season, stating that this was "100% [his] choice" and that "the show isn't being cancelled- it's being finished" and was simply reaching its natural conclusion. The show culminated with a one-hour finale, "Weirdmageddon 3: Take Back The Falls", airing on February 15, 2016. Hirsch later stated that he remains open to continuing the series with additional episodes or specials. Gravity Falls received critical acclaim with praise directed at its writing, characters, humor, and multi-generational appeal. Additionally, the series won two Emmy Awards, three Annie Awards, and a BAFTA Children's Award, among various other wins and nominations. Gravity Falls garnered high viewership amongst kids, teenagers, and young adults during its run and was Disney XD's highest rated show in 2015 and early 2016, while also setting several ratings records for the network. The series has attracted a broad and passionate fandom and has been considered to be an influence for many animated shows that followed it. The series has also inspired a variety of official merchandise including books, toys, and a video game. In February 2018, on the second anniversary of the final episode of the show, Hirsch used a cipher to announce Gravity Falls: Lost Legends, a continuation of the Gravity Falls story in a new graphic novel that was later released on July 24, 2018. On August 8, 2020, Disney Channel aired a Gravity Falls-inspired episode of the show Amphibia titled "Wax Museum".

 In cryptography, a cipher (or cypher) is an algorithm for performing encryption or decryption—a series of well-defined steps that can be followed as a procedure. An alternative, less common term is encipherment. To encipher or encode is to convert information into cipher or code. In common parlance, "cipher" is synonymous with "code", as they are both a set of steps that encrypt a message; however, the concepts are distinct in cryptography, especially classical cryptography. Codes generally substitute different length strings of character in the output, while ciphers generally substitute the same number of characters as are input. There are exceptions and some cipher systems may use slightly more, or fewer, characters when output versus the number that were input. Codes operated by substituting according to a large codebook which linked a random string of characters or numbers to a word or phrase. For example, "UQJHSE" could be the code for "Proceed to the following coordinates." When using a cipher the original information is known as plaintext, and the encrypted form as ciphertext. The ciphertext message contains all the information of the plaintext message, but is not in a format readable by a human or computer without the proper mechanism to decrypt it. The operation of a cipher usually depends on a piece of auxiliary information, called a key (or, in traditional NSA parlance, a cryptovariable). The encrypting procedure is varied depending on the key, which changes the detailed operation of the algorithm. A key must be selected before using a cipher to encrypt a message. Without knowledge of the key, it should be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to decrypt the resulting ciphertext into readable plaintext. Most modern ciphers can be categorized in several ways: By whether they work on blocks of symbols usually of a fixed size (block ciphers), or on a continuous stream of symbols (stream ciphers). By whether the same key is used for both encryption and decryption (symmetric key algorithms), or if a different key is used for each (asymmetric key algorithms). If the algorithm is symmetric, the key must be known to the recipient and sender and to no one else. If the algorithm is an asymmetric one, the enciphering key is different from, but closely related to, the deciphering key. If one key cannot be deduced from the other, the asymmetric key algorithm has the public/private key property and one of the keys may be made public without loss of confidentiality.

 Steven Universe is an American animated television series created by Rebecca Sugar for Cartoon Network. It is Cartoon Network's first animated series to be created solely by a woman. The show tells the coming-of-age story of a young boy, Steven Universe (Zach Callison), who lives with the Crystal Gems—magical, humanoid aliens named Garnet (Estelle), Amethyst (Michaela Dietz), and Pearl (Deedee Magno Hall)—in the fictional town of Beach City. Steven, who is half-Gem, has adventures with his friends and helps the Gems protect the world from their own kind. Its pilot was first shown in May 2013, and the series ran for five seasons, from November 2013 to January 2019. The TV film Steven Universe: The Movie was released in September 2019, and an epilogue limited series, Steven Universe Future, ran from December 2019 to March 2020. The themes of the series include love, family, and the importance of healthy interpersonal relationships. Sugar based the lead character on her younger brother Steven, who was an artist for the series. She developed Steven Universe while she was a writer and storyboard artist on Adventure Time, which she left when Cartoon Network commissioned her series for full production. The series is storyboard-driven; the show's storyboard artists were responsible for writing the dialogue and creating the action in addition to drawing the storyboards. Books, comics and video games based on the series have been released. The series has developed a broad fanbase and has been critically acclaimed for its design, music, voice acting, characterization, prominence of LGBTQ themes and science fantasy worldbuilding. The series won a GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Kids & Family Program in 2019, becoming the first animated series to win the award. It also received a Peabody Award for Children's & Youth Programming in 2019. It was nominated for five Emmy Awards and five Annie Awards. 

 Steven Universe: The Movie is a 2019 American animated musical television film based on the animated television series Steven Universe created by Rebecca Sugar. The film is directed, co-written, produced and executive produced by Sugar and fellow longtime crew members Kat Morris and Joe Johnston, and stars Zach Callison, Estelle, Michaela Dietz, Deedee Magno Hall, and Sarah Stiles, alongside an ensemble cast reprising their roles from the television series. Steven Universe: The Movie takes place two years after the events of the series finale "Change Your Mind", and follows the Crystal Gems as they attempt to save all organic life on Earth from a deranged Gem with a history with Steven's mother. The film was announced at San Diego Comic-Con 2018, and a short teaser trailer was later released on Cartoon Network's YouTube channel. At San Diego Comic-Con 2019, a trailer for the film was released, along with the announcement of a documentary based on the film's creation to be released along with the DVD. The film premiered on Cartoon Network on September 2, 2019. The film takes place between the original Steven Universe series and its follow-up, Steven Universe Future.

 Steven Universe Future is an American animated limited series created by Rebecca Sugar for Cartoon Network. It serves as an epilogue to the 2013–2019 original series Steven Universe and its follow-up 2019 animated film Steven Universe: The Movie. It premiered on December 7, 2019 and concluded on March 27, 2020. The series focuses on the aftermath of the events of Steven Universe, where humans and Gems coexist in harmony after the end of the war between the Crystal Gems and Homeworld. Without the threats of the Diamonds or corrupted Gems, Steven must deal with the everyday challenges that still come with his now relatively peaceful life, and question his new life objectives. Like the original series, Steven Universe Future has been critically acclaimed, with the design, music, voice acting, characterization, and prominence of LGBT themes being similarly praised; Future has been singled out for addressing issues some had with the original series, for its unique choice of focusing on the aftermath of the main story's climax, and for promoting mental health awareness through its treatment of Steven's experience of psychological trauma. The show was nominated for the 2020 Primetime Emmy Award for Short Form Animated Program.

  LGBT, or GLBT, is an initialism that stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender. In use since the 1990s, the term is an adaptation of the initialism LGB, which began to replace the term gay in reference to the broader LGBT community beginning in the mid-to-late 1980s. The initialism, as well as some of its common variants, functions as an umbrella term for sexuality and gender identity. It may refer to anyone who is non-heterosexual or non-cisgender, instead of exclusively to people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender. To recognize this inclusion, a popular variant adds the letter Q for those who identify as queer or are questioning their sexual identity; LGBTQ has been recorded since 1996. Those who add intersex people to LGBT groups or organizing may use the extended initialism LGBTI. These two initialisms are sometimes combined to form the terms LGBTIQ [11] or LGBT+ to encompass spectrums of sexuality and gender. Other, less common variants also exist, with some being rather extreme in length, resulting in an initialism over twice as long, which has prompted some criticism.

 Transgender people have a gender identity or gender expression that differs from the sex that they are assigned at birth. Some transgender people who desire medical assistance to transition from one sex to another identify as transsexual. Transgender, often shortened as trans, is also an umbrella term. In addition to including people whose gender identity is the opposite of their assigned sex (trans men and trans women), it may include people who are not exclusively masculine or feminine (people who are non-binary or genderqueer, including bigender, pangender, genderfluid, or agender). Other definitions of transgender also include people who belong to a third gender, or else conceptualize transgender people as a third gender. The term transgender may be defined very broadly to include cross-dressers. Being transgender is independent of sexual orientation. Transgender people may identify as heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual, asexual, or may decline to label their sexual orientation. The term transgender is also distinguished from intersex, a term that describes people born with physical sex characteristics "that do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies". The opposite of transgender is cisgender, which describes persons whose gender identity or expression matches their assigned sex. The degree to which individuals feel genuine, authentic, and comfortable within their external appearance and accept their genuine identity has been called transgender congruence.[14] Many transgender people experience gender dysphoria, and some seek medical treatments such as hormone replacement therapy, sex reassignment surgery, or psychotherapy. Not all transgender people desire these treatments, and some cannot undergo them for financial or medical reasons. Many transgender people face discrimination in the workplace and in accessing public accommodations and healthcare.  In many places, they are not legally protected from discrimination.

 Transgender history, in the broadest sense, includes examples of gender variance and gender nonconformity in cultures worldwide since ancient times. As this history is prior to the coining of the modern term "transgender", opinions of how to categorize these people and identities can vary. This history also begins prior to the mid-twentieth-century usage of "gender" in American psychology and associated conceptual apparatus including the notions of "gender identity" and "gender role". Sumerian and Akkadian texts from 4500 years ago document transgender or transvestite priests known as gala and by other names. Graves of possibly trans- or third-gender people in Europe have been identified from 4500 years ago, and likely depictions occur in art around the Mediterranean from 9000 to 3700 years ago. In Ancient Greece, Phrygia, and Rome, there were galli priests that some scholars believe to have been trans women, and records of women who passed as men in order to vote, fight, or study during times when these things were forbidden for women. Roman emperor Elagabalus (d. 222) preferred to be called a lady (rather than a lord), sought sex reassignment surgery, and has been seen as an early trans figure. Hijras on the Indian subcontinent and kathoeys in Thailand have formed trans-feminine third gender social and spiritual communities since ancient times, with their presence documented for thousands of years in texts, which also mention trans male figures. Religious iconography in these cultures includes depictions of androgynous figures with bodies that are male on one side and female on the other, like Ardhanarishvara. Today, at least half a million hijras live in India and another half million in Bangladesh, legally recognized as a third gender, and many trans people are accepted in Thailand. In Arabia, khanith today (like earlier mukhannathun) fulfill a third gender role attested since the 600s. In Africa, many societies have traditional roles for trans women and trans men, some of which survive in the modern era amid recent widespread hostility. In the Americas prior to European colonization, as well as in some contemporary North American Indigenous cultures, there are social and ceremonial roles for third gender people, or those whose gender expression transforms, such as the Navajo nádleehi or the Zuni lhamana. In the Middle Ages, accounts around Europe document trans men, while Kalonymus ben Kalonymus's lament for being born a man instead of a woman has been seen as an early account of gender dysphoria. Eleanor Rykener, a male-bodied Briton arrested in 1394 while living and doing sex work as a woman, has been seen as a trans woman. In the Balkans since the 1400s, female-assigned people have transitioned to live as men called sworn virgins. In Japan, accounts of trans people go back to the Edo period. In colonial America, Thomas(ine) Hall in the 1600s adopted clothes and roles of both men and women, while in 1776 the genderless Public Universal Friend arose. In the 1800s, some people used military service to begin new lives as men, like Albert Cashier and James Barry, or otherwise transitioned, like Joseph Lobdell; trans women like Frances Thompson also transitioned. In 1895, trans autobiographer Jennie June and others organized the Cercle Hermaphroditos; in the 1900s, musician Billy Tipton lived as a man, while Lucy Hicks Anderson was supported by her parents and community in being a woman. Karl M. Baer (in 1906), Alan L. Hart (1917) and Michael Dillon (1946) had early female-to-male sex reassignment surgeries, while in 1930 and 1931, Dora Richter and Lili Elbe had early male-to-female reassignment surgeries including (for Elbe) an ovary and uterus transplant. Baer, Richter and Elbe were aided by Magnus Hirschfeld, whose pioneering work at the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft for trans medicine and rights the Nazis destroyed in 1933. In 1952, American trans woman Christine Jorgensen's public transition brought widespread awareness to reassignment surgery. The grassroots fight for trans rights became more publicly visible with trans and gay people fighting back against police in the 1959 Cooper Donuts Riot, the 1966 Compton's Cafeteria Riot, and the multi-day Stonewall Riots of 1969. In 1970s, Lou Sullivan began what became FTM International, while some feminists began to feud over excluding or including trans women. In Iran, the government started partially funding sex reassignment, and now carries out more surgeries than anywhere besides Thailand. In Indonesia, there are millions of trans-/third-gender waria, and the bugis of Sulawesi recognize five genders. In Oceania, trans-/third-gender roles like the akava'ine, fa'afafine and fakaleiti exist among the Cook Island Maori, Samoans, and Tongans. In the 1990s and 2000s, the Transgender Day of Remembrance was started and trans marches around the time of Pride became more common, trans people like Georgina Beyer (in New Zealand), Shabnam Mausi (India), Tomoya Hosoda (Japan) and Danica Roem (US) were elected to some public offices, and legislative and court actions began recognizing trans people's rights in some countries around the world (especially in the West, India, and southern Africa). At the same time, other countries (especially in the rest of Africa, Central Asia, and Arabia) are hostile and abridge trans people's rights. 

 Breaking Bad is an American neo-Western crime drama television series created and produced by Vince Gilligan. The show aired on AMC from January 20, 2008, to September 29, 2013, consisting of five seasons for a total of 62 episodes. It was set and filmed in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and tells the story of Walter White (Bryan Cranston), an underpaid and dispirited high school chemistry teacher who is struggling with a recent diagnosis of stage-three lung cancer. White turns to a life of crime, partnering with his former student Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), by producing and distributing crystallized methamphetamine to secure his family's financial future before he dies, while navigating the dangers of the criminal underworld. The title is a Southern colloquialism meaning to turn to a life of crime. Gilligan characterized the series as showing Walter's transformation from a soft-spoken Mr. Chips into Scarface. Among the show's co-stars are Anna Gunn and RJ Mitte as Walter's wife Skyler and son Walter, Jr., and Betsy Brandt and Dean Norris as Skyler's sister Marie Schrader and her husband Hank, a DEA agent. Others include Bob Odenkirk as White's and Pinkman's sleazy lawyer Saul Goodman, Jonathan Banks as private investigator and fixer Mike Ehrmantraut, and Giancarlo Esposito as drug kingpin Gus Fring. The final season introduces Jesse Plemons as the criminally ambitious Todd Alquist, and Laura Fraser as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, a clumsy business executive secretly managing Walter's global meth sales for her company. Breaking Bad's first season received generally positive reviews, while the rest of its run received universal acclaim, which would make critics laud it as one of the greatest television series of all time. It had moderate viewership in its first three seasons, but the fourth and fifth seasons saw a significant rise in viewership when it was made available on Netflix just before the fourth season premiere. By the time that the series finale aired, it was among the most-watched cable shows on American television. The show received numerous awards, including 16 Primetime Emmy Awards, eight Satellite Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, two Peabody Awards, two Critics' Choice Awards, and four Television Critics Association Awards. Cranston won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series four times, while Aaron Paul won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series three times; Anna Gunn won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series twice. In 2013, Breaking Bad entered the Guinness World Records as the most critically acclaimed show of all time. Better Call Saul, a prequel series featuring Odenkirk, Banks, and Esposito reprising their Breaking Bad roles, debuted on AMC on February 8, 2015, and has been renewed for a final sixth season. The sequel film El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie starring Aaron Paul was released on Netflix and in theaters on October 11, 2019.

 Better Call Saul is an American television crime drama series created by Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould. It is both a spin-off and a prequel of Gilligan's previous series, Breaking Bad. Set in the early-to-mid-2000s in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the series develops Jimmy McGill (Bob Odenkirk), an earnest lawyer and former con-man, into a greedy criminal defense attorney known as Saul Goodman. Also shown is the moral decline of retired police officer Mike Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks), who becomes closely affiliated with the Juarez drug cartel to support his family. Jimmy and Mike's interactions remain sporadic until their respective storylines fully converge. The show premiered on AMC on February 8, 2015, airing five seasons to date. A sixth and final season, consisting of 13 episodes, is scheduled to air in 2021. At the start of the series, Jimmy works as a public defender. Struggling financially, he lives in the back room of a nail salon which doubles as an office. His romantic interest and former colleague, Kim Wexler (Rhea Seehorn), is an attorney at Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill (HHM), a law firm co-owned by Jimmy's brilliant, but unwell brother, Chuck McGill (Michael McKean) and proud associate, Howard Hamlin (Patrick Fabian). After hiring Jimmy as legal representation, Mike provides advice and security for Nacho Varga (Michael Mando), an intelligent drug dealer who later becomes an informant for Gus Fring (Giancarlo Esposito), an ambitious drug lord and legitimate businessman. Their operations are disrupted by members of the violent Salamanca family, including Lalo Salamanca (Tony Dalton). Odenkirk, Banks, and Esposito reprise their roles from Breaking Bad, as do many others who make guest appearances. Better Call Saul has received critical acclaim, with particular praise for its acting, characters, writing, direction, and cinematography; many critics have called it a worthy successor to Breaking Bad and one of the best prequels ever made, with some deeming it superior to its predecessor. It has garnered many nominations, including a Peabody Award, 23 Primetime Emmy Awards, eleven Writers Guild of America Awards, five Critics' Choice Television Awards, four Screen Actors Guild Awards, and three Golden Globe Awards. The series premiere held the record for the highest-rated scripted series premiere in basic cable history at the time of its airing. 

 Crime films, in the broadest sense, is a film genre inspired by and analogous to the crime fiction literary genre. Films of this genre generally involve various aspects of crime and its detection. Stylistically, the genre may overlap and combine with many other genres, such as drama or gangster film, but also include comedy, and, in turn, is divided into many sub-genres, such as mystery, suspense or noir. Screenwriter and scholar Eric R. Williams identifies Crime Film as one of eleven super-genres in his screenwriters’ taxonomy, claiming that all feature length narrative films can be classified by these super-genres.  The other ten super-genres are Action, Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Science Fiction, Slice of Life, Sports, Thriller, War and Western. Williams identifies drama in a broader category called "film type", mystery and suspense as "macro-genres", and film noir as a "screenwriter's pathway" explaining that these categories are additive rather than exclusionary. Chinatown would be an example of a film that is a drama (film type) crime film (super-genre) that is also a noir (pathway) mystery (macro-genre). 

 Brazil (Portuguese: Brasil; Brazilian Portuguese: [bɾaˈziw]), officially the Federative Republic of Brazil (Portuguese: About this soundRepública Federativa do Brasil), is the largest country in both South America and Latin America. At 8.5 million square kilometers (3.2 million square miles) and with over 211 million people, Brazil is the world's fifth-largest country by area and the sixth most populous. Its capital is Brasília, and its most populous city is São Paulo. The federation is composed of the union of the 26 states and the Federal District. It is the largest country to have Portuguese as an official language and the only one in the Americas; it is also one of the most multicultural and ethnically diverse nations, due to over a century of mass immigration from around the world; as well as the most populous Roman Catholic-majority country. Bounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, Brazil has a coastline of 7,491 kilometers (4,655 mi). It borders all other countries in South America except Ecuador and Chile and covers 47.3% of the continent's land area. Its Amazon basin includes a vast tropical forest, home to diverse wildlife, a variety of ecological systems, and extensive natural resources spanning numerous protected habitats. This unique environmental heritage makes Brazil one of 17 megadiverse countries, and is the subject of significant global interest and debate regarding deforestation and environmental protection. Brazil was inhabited by numerous tribal nations prior to the landing in 1500 of explorer Pedro Álvares Cabral, who claimed the area for the Portuguese Empire. Brazil remained a Portuguese colony until 1808 when the capital of the empire was transferred from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro. In 1815, the colony was elevated to the rank of kingdom upon the formation of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves. Independence was achieved in 1822 with the creation of the Empire of Brazil, a unitary state governed under a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system. The ratification of the first constitution in 1824 led to the formation of a bicameral legislature, now called the National Congress. The country became a presidential republic in 1889 following a military coup d'état. An authoritarian military junta came to power in 1964 and ruled until 1985, after which civilian governance resumed. Brazil's current constitution, formulated in 1988, defines it as a democratic federal republic. Due to its rich culture and history, the country ranks thirteenth in the world by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Brazil is classified as an upper-middle income economy by the World Bank and a newly industrialized country, with the largest share of global wealth in Latin America. It is considered an advanced emerging economy. It has the ninth largest GDP in the world by nominal, and eighth by PPP measures.  It is one of the world's major breadbaskets, being the largest producer of coffee for the last 150 years. Brazil is a regional power and sometimes considered a great or a middle power in international affairs. On account of its international recognition and influence, the country is subsequently classified as an emerging power and a potential superpower by several analysts. Brazil is a founding member of the United Nations, the G20, BRICS, Mercosul, Organization of American States, Organization of Ibero-American States and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries. 

 The United States of America (USA), commonly known as the United States (US or U.S.) or America, is a country primarily located in central North America, between Canada and Mexico. It consists of 50 states, a federal district, five permanently inhabited self-governing territories, and various possessions. At 3.8 million square miles (9.8 million square kilometers), it is the world's third- or fourth-largest country by total area. With a population of over 328 million, it is the third most populous country in the world. The national capital is Washington, D.C., and the most populous city is New York City. Paleo-Indians migrated from Siberia to the North American mainland at least 12,000 years ago, and European colonization began in the 16th century. The United States emerged from the thirteen British colonies established along the East Coast. Disputes over taxation and political representation with Great Britain led to the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783), which established independence. In the late 18th century, the U.S. began vigorously expanding across North America, gradually acquiring new territories, conquering and displacing Native Americans, and admitting new states; by 1848, the United States spanned the continent. Slavery was legal in the southern United States until the second half of the 19th century, when the American Civil War led to its abolition. The Spanish–American War and World War I established the U.S. as a world power, a status confirmed by the outcome of World War II. During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union engaged in various proxy wars, but avoided direct military conflict. They also competed in the Space Race, culminating in the 1969 spaceflight that first landed humans on the Moon. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 ended the Cold War and left the United States as the world's sole superpower. The United States is a federal republic and a representative democracy with three separate branches of government, including a bicameral legislature. It is a founding member of the United Nations, World Bank, International Monetary Fund, Organization of American States (OAS), NATO, and other international organizations. It is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. The U.S. ranks high in international measures of economic freedom, government corruption, quality of life, and quality of higher education. Despite income and wealth disparities, the United States continuously ranks high in measures of socioeconomic performance. It is one of the most racially and ethnically diverse nations in the world. Considered a melting pot, its population has been shaped through centuries of immigration. A highly developed country, the United States accounts for approximately a quarter of global gross domestic product (GDP) and is the world's largest economy by nominal GDP. By value, the United States is the world's largest importer and the second-largest exporter of goods. Although its population is only 4.3% of the world total, it holds 29.4% of the total wealth in the world, the largest share held by any country. Making up more than a third of global military spending, it is the foremost military power in the world, and is a leading political, cultural, and scientific force internationally.

 Twin Peaks is an American mystery drama television series created by Mark Frost and David Lynch that premiered on April 8, 1990, on ABC until its cancellation after its second season in 1991. The show gained a devoted cult following and has been referenced in a wide variety of media. In subsequent years, Twin Peaks is often listed among the greatest television series of all time, and is considered a landmark turning point in television drama. The series follows an investigation headed by FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) and local Sheriff Harry S. Truman (Michael Ontkean) into the murder of homecoming queen Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee) in the fictional town of Twin Peaks, Washington. The show's narrative draws on elements of detective fiction, but its uncanny tone, supernatural elements, and campy, melodramatic portrayal of eccentric characters also draw on American soap opera and horror tropes.  Like much of Lynch's work, it is distinguished by surrealism, offbeat humor, and distinctive cinematography. The score was composed by Angelo Badalamenti with Lynch. The success of the show sparked a media franchise, and the series was followed by a 1992 feature film, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me, that serves as a prequel to the series. Additional tie-in books were also released. Following a hiatus of over 25 years, the show returned in 2017 with a third season on Showtime. The season was directed by Lynch and written by Lynch and Frost, and starred MacLachlan alongside other original cast members. 

 David Keith Lynch (born January 20, 1946) is an American filmmaker, painter, musician, and actor. He is best known for writing and directing films such as Eraserhead (1977), The Elephant Man (1980), Blue Velvet (1986), and Mulholland Drive (2001), which are often regarded by critics as among the best films of their times,  and for his television series Twin Peaks (1990–91, 2017). These works led to him being labeled "the first popular Surrealist" by film critic Pauline Kael. A recipient of an Academy Honorary Award in 2019,[4] he has received three Academy Award nominations for Best Director, and has won the César Award for Best Foreign Film twice, as well as the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival and a Golden Lion award for lifetime achievement at the Venice Film Festival. In 2007, a panel of critics convened by The Guardian announced that 'after all the discussion, no one could fault the conclusion that David Lynch is the most important film-maker of the current era', while AllMovie called him "the Renaissance man of modern American filmmaking". Lynch's first feature-length film, the surrealist horror Eraserhead (1977), became a success on the midnight movie circuit, and he followed that by directing The Elephant Man (1980), Dune (1984), and Blue Velvet (1986). Lynch next created his own television series with Mark Frost, the popular murder mystery Twin Peaks (1990–91), which ran for two seasons. He also created the film prequel Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992), the road film Wild at Heart (1990), and the family film The Straight Story (1999) in the same period. Turning further towards surrealist filmmaking, three of his subsequent films operated on dream logic non-linear narrative structures: Lost Highway (1997), Mulholland Drive (2001), and Inland Empire (2006). Lynch and Frost reunited in 2017 for a third season of Twin Peaks, which aired on Showtime. Lynch co-wrote and directed every episode, and reprised his onscreen role as Gordon Cole. Lynch's other artistic endeavours include his work as a musician, encompassing the studio albums BlueBOB (2001), Crazy Clown Time (2011), and The Big Dream (2013), as well as music and sound design for a variety of his films; painting and photography; writing the books Images (1994), Catching the Big Fish (2006), and Room to Dream (2018); and directing several music videos and advertisements, including the Dior promotional film Lady Blue Shanghai (2006). An avid practitioner of Transcendental Meditation (TM), in 2005 he founded the David Lynch Foundation, which seeks to fund the teaching of TM in schools and has since widened its scope to other at-risk populations, including the homeless, veterans and refugees. 

 Leonardo da Vinci (English: /ˌliːəˈnɑːrdoʊ də ˈvɪntʃi, ˌliːoʊˈ-, ˌleɪoʊˈ-/;[a] 14/15 April 1452 – 2 May 1519) was an Italian polymath of the High Renaissance who is widely considered one of the greatest painters of all time. The Mona Lisa is the most famous of his works and the most famous portrait ever made. The Last Supper is the most reproduced religious painting of all time and his Vitruvian Man drawing is also regarded as a cultural icon. He is also known for his notebooks, in which he made drawings and notes on science and invention; these involve a variety of subjects including anatomy, cartography, painting, and palaeontology. Leonardo's collective works compose a contribution to later generations of artists rivalled only by that of his contemporary Michelangelo. Properly named Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci, Leonardo was born out of wedlock to a notary, Piero da Vinci, and a peasant woman, Caterina, in Vinci, in the region of Florence, Italy. Leonardo was educated in the studio of the renowned Italian painter Andrea del Verrocchio. Much of his earlier working life was spent in the service of Ludovico il Moro in Milan, and he later worked in Rome, Bologna and Venice. He spent his last three years in France, where he died in 1519. Leonardo was born out of wedlock to a notary, Piero da Vinci, and a peasant woman, Caterina, in Vinci, in the region of Florence, Italy. Leonardo was educated in the studio of the renowned Italian painter Andrea del Verrocchio. Much of his earlier working life was spent in the service of Ludovico il Moro in Milan, and he later worked in Rome, Bologna and Venice. He spent his last three years in France, where he died in 1519, many historians and scholars regard Leonardo as the prime exemplar of the "Renaissance Man" or "Universal Genius", an individual of "unquenchable curiosity" and "feverishly inventive imagination." He is widely considered one of the most diversely talented individuals ever to have lived. According to art historian Helen Gardner, the scope and depth of his interests were without precedent in recorded history, and "his mind and personality seem to us superhuman, while the man himself mysterious and remote." Scholars interpret his view of the world as being based in logic, though the empirical methods he used were unorthodox for his time. Leonardo is revered for his technological ingenuity. He conceptualized flying machines, a type of armoured fighting vehicle, concentrated solar power, an adding machine, and the double hull. Relatively few of his designs were constructed or even feasible during his lifetime, as the modern scientific approaches to metallurgy and engineering were only in their infancy during the Renaissance. Some of his smaller inventions, however, entered the world of manufacturing unheralded, such as an automated bobbin winder and a machine for testing the tensile strength of wire. He is also sometimes credited with the inventions of the parachute, helicopter, and tank. He made substantial discoveries in anatomy, civil engineering, geology, optics, and hydrodynamics, but he did not publish his findings and they had little to no direct influence on subsequent science.

 Albert Einstein (/ˈaɪnstaɪn/ EYEN-styne; German: [ˈalbɛʁt ˈʔaɪnʃtaɪn] (About this soundlisten); 14 March 1879 – 18 April 1955) was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics (alongside quantum mechanics). His work is also known for its influence on the philosophy of science. He is best known to the general public for his mass–energy equivalence formula E = mc2, which has been dubbed "the world's most famous equation". He received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics "for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect", a pivotal step in the development of quantum theory. The son of a salesman who later operated an electrochemical factory, Einstein was born in the German Empire, but moved to Switzerland in 1895 and renounced his German citizenship in 1896. Specializing in physics and mathematics, he received his academic teaching diploma from the Swiss Federal Polytechnic School (German: eidgenössische polytechnische Schule) in Zürich in 1900. The following year, he acquired Swiss citizenship, which he kept for his entire life. After initially struggling to find work, from 1902 to 1909 he was employed as a patent examiner at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern. Near the beginning of his career, Einstein thought that Newtonian mechanics was no longer enough to reconcile the laws of classical mechanics with the laws of the electromagnetic field. This led him to develop his special theory of relativity during his time at the Swiss Patent Office. In 1905, called his annus mirabilis (miracle year), he published four groundbreaking papers, which attracted the attention of the academic world; the first outlined the theory of the photoelectric effect, the second paper explained Brownian motion, the third paper introduced special relativity, and the fourth mass-energy equivalence. That year, at the age of 26, he was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich. Although initially treated with skepticism from many in the scientific community, Einstein's works gradually came to be recognised as significant advancements. He was invited to teach theoretical physics at the University of Bern in 1908 and the following year moved to the University of Zurich, then in 1911 to Charles University in Prague before returning to ETH (the newly renamed Federal Polytechnic School) in Zürich in 1912. In 1914, he was elected to the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin, where he remained for 19 years. Soon after publishing his work on special relativity, Einstein began working to extend the theory to gravitational fields; he then published a paper on general relativity in 1916, introducing his theory of gravitation. He continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory, which led to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules. He also investigated the thermal properties of light and the quantum theory of radiation, the basis of the laser, which laid the foundation of the photon theory of light. In 1917, he applied the general theory of relativity to model the structure of the universe. In 1933, while Einstein was visiting the United States, Adolf Hitler came to power. Because of his Jewish background, Einstein did not return to Germany. He settled in the United States and became an American citizen in 1940. On the eve of World War II, he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting FDR to the potential development of "extremely powerful bombs of a new type" and recommending that the US begin similar research. This eventually led to the Manhattan Project. Einstein supported the Allies, but he generally denounced the idea of using nuclear fission as a weapon. He signed the Russell–Einstein Manifesto with British philosopher Bertrand Russell, which highlighted the danger of nuclear weapons. He was affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, until his death in 1955. He published more than 300 scientific papers and more than 150 non-scientific works. His intellectual achievements and originality have made the word "Einstein" synonymous with "genius". Eugene Wigner compared him to his contemporaries, writing that "Einstein's understanding was deeper even than Jancsi von Neumann's. His mind was both more penetrating and more original".

 Harris "Harry" Brewis (born 19 September 1992), better known as Harris Bomberguy or Hbomberguy for short, is an English YouTuber and Twitch streamer. Brewis produces video essays on a variety of topics such as film, television, and video games, often combining them with arguments from left-wing political and economic positions. He also creates videos aimed at debunking conspiracy theories and responding to alt-right and antifeminist arguments.

 Half-Life is a series of first-person shooter (FPS) games developed and published by Valve. The games combine shooting combat, puzzles, and storytelling. The original Half-Life, Valve's first product, was released in 1998 for Windows to critical and commercial success. Players control Gordon Freeman, a scientist who must survive an alien invasion. The innovative scripted sequences were influential on the FPS genre, and the game inspired numerous community-developed mods, including the multiplayer games Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat. Half-Life was followed by the expansions Opposing Force (1999), Blue Shift (2001) and Decay (2001), developed by Gearbox Software. In 2004, Valve released Half-Life 2 to further success, with a new setting and characters and physics-based gameplay. The series continued with the episodic games Half-Life 2: Lost Coast (2005), Half-Life 2: Episode One (2006) and Half-Life 2: Episode Two (2007). The first game in the Portal series, set in the same universe as Half-Life, was released in 2007. Over the following decade, numerous Half-Life games were canceled, including Half-Life 2: Episode Three, a version of Half-Life 3, and games developed by Junction Point Studios and Arkane Studios. In 2020, after years of speculation, Valve released its flagship virtual reality game, Half-Life: Alyx. Set before Half-Life 2, players control Freeman's ally Alyx Vance in her quest to defeat the alien Combine. 

 Half-Life: Alyx is a 2020 virtual reality (VR) first-person shooter developed and published by Valve. Between the events of Half-Life (1998) and Half-Life 2 (2004), players control Alyx Vance on a mission to seize a superweapon belonging to the alien Combine. Players use VR to interact with the environment and fight enemies, using "gravity gloves" to manipulate objects, similarly to the gravity gun from Half-Life 2. Traditional Half-Life elements return, such as physics puzzles, combat, exploration and survival horror aspects. The previous Half-Life game, Episode Two, was released in 2007. After several failed attempts to develop further Half-Life projects, Valve began experimenting with VR in the mid-2010s, recognizing the demand for a large-scale VR game. They experimented with prototypes using their various intellectual properties, such as Portal, and found that Half-Life best suited VR. Alyx entered full production using Valve's new Source 2 engine in 2016, with the largest team in Valve's history. Alyx was released for Windows on March 23, 2020, with support for most PC-compatible VR headsets. It received universal acclaim for its graphics, voice acting, narrative, and atmosphere, and was cited by some as VR's first killer app. Valve released a Linux version in May 2020. 

 Franklin Delano Roosevelt (/ˈroʊzəvəlt/, /-vɛlt/; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945), often referred to by his initials FDR, was an American politician who served as the 32nd president of the United States from 1933 until his death in 1945. A member of the Democratic Party, he won a record four presidential elections and became a central figure in world events during the first half of the 20th century. Roosevelt directed the federal government during most of the Great Depression, implementing his New Deal domestic agenda in response to the worst economic crisis in U.S. history. As a dominant leader of his party, he built the New Deal Coalition, which defined modern liberalism in the United States throughout the middle third of the 20th century. His third and fourth terms were dominated by World War II, which ended shortly after he died in office. Roosevelt was born in Hyde Park, New York, to the Roosevelt family made well known by the reputation of Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th president of the United States, as well as by the reputation of prominent businessman William Henry Aspinwall. FDR graduated from Groton School and Harvard College, and attended Columbia Law School but left after passing the bar exam to practice law in New York City. In 1905, he married his fifth cousin once removed, Eleanor Roosevelt. They had six children, of whom five survived into adulthood. He won election to the New York State Senate in 1910, and then served as Assistant Secretary of the Navy under President Woodrow Wilson during World War I. Roosevelt was James M. Cox's running mate on the Democratic Party's 1920 national ticket, but Cox was defeated by Republican Warren G. Harding. In 1921, Roosevelt contracted a paralytic illness, believed at the time to be polio, and his legs became permanently paralyzed. While attempting to recover from his condition, Roosevelt founded a rehabilitation center in Warm Springs, Georgia, for people with poliomyelitis. In spite of being unable to walk unaided, Roosevelt returned to public office by winning election as Governor of New York in 1928. He served as governor from 1929 to 1933, promoting programs to combat the economic crisis besetting the United States. In the 1932 presidential election, Roosevelt defeated Republican President Herbert Hoover in a landslide. Roosevelt took office in the midst of the Great Depression, the worst economic crisis in U.S. history. During the first 100 days of the 73rd United States Congress, Roosevelt spearheaded unprecedented federal legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal — a variety of programs designed to produce relief, recovery, and reform. He created numerous programs to provide relief to the unemployed and farmers while seeking economic recovery with the National Recovery Administration and other programs. He also instituted major regulatory reforms related to finance, communications, and labor, and presided over the end of Prohibition. He used radio to speak directly to the American people, giving 30 "fireside chat" radio addresses during his presidency and becoming the first American president to be televised. With the economy having improved rapidly from 1933 to 1936, Roosevelt won a landslide reelection in 1936. However, the economy then relapsed into a deep recession in 1937 and 1938. After the 1936 election, Roosevelt sought passage of the Judiciary Reorganization Bill of 1937 (the "court packing plan"), which would have expanded the size of the Supreme Court of the United States. The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented passage of the bill and blocked the implementation of further New Deal programs and reforms. Major surviving programs and legislation implemented under Roosevelt include the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Labor Relations Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Social Security, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. The United States reelected FDR in 1940 for his third term, making him the only U.S. president to serve for more than two terms. With World War II looming after 1938, the U.S. remained officially neutral, but Roosevelt gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China, the United Kingdom and eventually the Soviet Union. Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, an event he famously called "a date which will live in infamy", Roosevelt obtained a congressional declaration of war on Japan, and, a few days later, on Germany and Italy. Assisted by his top aide Harry Hopkins and with very strong national support, he worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Soviet leader Joseph Stalin and Chinese Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek in leading the Allied Powers against the Axis Powers. Roosevelt supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the war effort, and implemented a Europe first strategy, making the defeat of Germany a priority over that of Japan. He also initiated the development of the world's first atomic bomb, and worked with other Allied leaders to lay the groundwork for the United Nations and other post-war institutions. Roosevelt won reelection in 1944, but with his physical health declining during the war years, he died in April 1945, less than three months into his fourth term. The Axis Powers surrendered to the Allies in the months following Roosevelt's death, during the presidency of his successor, Harry S. Truman. Roosevelt is usually rated by scholars among the nation's greatest presidents, after George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, but has also been subject to substantial criticism. 

 Wayne Mark Rooney (born 24 October 1985) is an English professional footballer and captain for Championship club Derby County. He has played much of his career as a forward, and he has also been used in various midfield roles. Widely considered to be one of the best players of his generation, Rooney is the record goalscorer for both the England national team and Manchester United. Rooney joined the Everton youth team at the age of 9 and made his professional debut for the club in 2002 at the age of 16. He spent two seasons at the Merseyside club, before moving to Manchester United for £25.6 million in the 2004 summer transfer window where he won 16 trophies and became the only English player, alongside teammate Michael Carrick, to win the Premier League, FA Cup, UEFA Champions League, League Cup, UEFA Europa League, and FIFA Club World Cup. He scored 253 goals for United in all competitions to make him their top goalscorer of all time, with 183 Premier League goals being the most scored by a player for any single club. Rooney's 208 Premier League goals make him the Premier League's second-top scorer of all time. He also has the third-highest number of assists in the Premier League, with 103. Rooney made his senior international debut for England in February 2003 aged 17 and is England's youngest ever goalscorer. He played at UEFA Euro 2004 and scored four goals, briefly becoming the youngest goalscorer in the history of the European Championship. Rooney has since featured at the 2006, 2010, and 2014 World Cups and was widely regarded as his country's best player. He has won the England Player of the Year award four times, in 2008, 2009, 2014, and 2015. With 53 goals in 120 international caps, Rooney is England's all-time record goalscorer and second-most-capped player behind Peter Shilton. Rooney won the PFA Players' Player of the Year and the FWA Footballer of the Year awards for the 2009–10 season, and he has won the Premier League Player of the Month award five times throughout his career. He came fifth in the vote for the 2011 FIFA Ballon d'Or, and he was named in the FIFA FIFPro World XI for 2011. He won the Goal of the Season award by the BBC's Match of the Day poll on three occasions, with his bicycle kick against city rivals Manchester City winning the Premier League 20 Seasons Awards Best Goal award.

According to Pearl and Vidalia, Steven takes after his parents. He is relatively short with a thick, stocky build. He has fair skin, curly dark brown hair, dark brown eyebrows, and full black irises which can sometimes have stars as pupils when he gets excited or optimistic. He wears a salmon-pink T-shirt with a gold star in the center. He also wears cuffed blue jeans and salmon-pink flip-flop sandals. His gemstone, a pink diamond he inherited from his mother is where his navel should be. As revealed in "Steven's Birthday", while he is fourteen years of age his half-Gem physiology affects his rate of aging and he appears younger. As of Steven Universe: The Movie, Steven has aged physically, having grown slightly taller and now having a visible neck. He still keeps his blue jeans and salmon-pink sandals, but his shirt is now sky-blue with a yellow star in the center, and he also wears a pink varsity jacket with white trims. As of Steven Universe Future, Steven wears the same clothing he had worn in the movie except that his blue shirt is now black, resembling his father Greg's old Mr. Universe shirts. Due to his new height and healthier lifestyle, as revealed in "Snow Day", he appears leaner than before. After the events of "Together Forever", Steven looks noticeably chubbier as a result of his depression-induced eating. Once Greg was able to calm him down and reduce his magic swelling at the end of "Growing Pains", Steven returned to his healthy appearance upon returning to his current size and shape before the following episode. In "Fragments", after tough training with Jasper, Steven appears to have aged physically again, combined with results of the training he went through and his power that makes him appear older based on his mental state. He became taller and bulkier, with his hair also getting longer and more untamed and starting to look like Pink Diamond's hair. While losing complete control over his diamond powers, Steven's pupils appear to become diamond-shaped with pink irises, similar to those of Pink Diamond's, albeit the pupils being colored white compared to Pink's black pupils and not too dissimilar to White Diamond's pupils. After shattering Jasper, he returns to his former form. At the end of "Homeworld Bound", Steven's hair is similar to its appearance during his training with Jasper, looking longer and untamed again. At the end of "Everything's Fine" and during "I Am My Monster", he transforms into a giant Kaiju-sized monster after coming to the conclusion that he is one. He is massive in size, towering over the Crystal Temple and completely dwarfing the Diamonds, though he noticeably decreases in size over time, becoming only a few meters taller than his fellow Diamonds. His posture is heavily hunched over and his anatomy is disproportionate, with a potbelly, a long heavy neck ending in a small head, a short tail, long powerful arms, and relatively short legs. His body is covered head to toe in hot pink tuberculate scales that are hexagonal in shape, and his back is protected by a thick armored carapace. He has numerous pinkish off-white thorn-like spines running down the length of his back and forearms, starting at his forehead and ending halfway down his tail. He retains his human form's facial profile and nose, though his eyes have gained black sclera and glowing pink pupils, and his mouth is now filled with sharp teeth. On the sides of his head are a pair of long, angular horns that point upwards, as well as a similar-looking pair of short, curved tusks on the sides of his lower jaw. His forearms are thick and powerful, bearing large human-like hands with four fingers and a thumb each, all five digits bearing sharp, dark pink claws. His legs are digitigrade in posture and his feet bear five claw-tipped toes each. His gemstone is still located where his navel would be, though it appears much smaller due to his massive size in this state.

Steven is optimistic, friendly, outgoing, soft-hearted, and carefree with a happy-go-lucky attitude that is appreciated by many of the citizens of Beach City in one way or another. He is musically inclined, a trait inherited from his father, with a propensity for breaking out into song and occasionally playing on his ukulele. Steven sees the best in everyone and is also very compassionate, something which Pearl notes he inherits from his mother and treasures his friends and family. He is friendly toward almost everyone he meets (even to his detriment), rarely holds grudges, and is non-discriminatory, never treating anyone with prejudice, even enemies. No matter the situation, Steven will always go out of his way to support his loved ones, even if it means putting his life on the line and he will avoid resorting to violence if possible. He would much rather make a compromise and choose to reason than fight back. Steven looks up to his caretakers — Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl — and considers them family. He wants to be a great hero just like them and is eager to go on adventures with the trio, both to prove his worth and to have fun exploring strange lands. Despite his underdeveloped magical power and lack of experience, he has proven himself to have much heroic potential through his resourcefulness, optimism, and confidence. Steven is rather naive and socially oblivious due to his isolated upbringing. Steven has never attended a school and before "Nightmare Hospital" had never been in a hospital or had his vitals taken. While Steven is often prepared to go on adventures at a moment's notice he has a habit of biting off more than he can chew, requiring the Gems to intervene. While Steven retains his childlike innocence and obliviousness to the dangers he is put in his encounters with Homeworld Gems give him a new level of seriousness. This initially makes Steven self-conscious about his immaturity and he gains resolve to outgrow it, although his misguided attempt becomes a source of self-inflicted misery as he tries to break off his friendship with Connie to protect her from harm. It was only Connie's sensible nature that stops him from going down a bad road and balances his resolve. Steven has since grown more mature and level-headed in dealing with strenuous situations, but his enthusiasm has remained the same. His maturity has grown to new levels as he helps Lapis Lazuli and Peridot acclimate to Earth and continues to hone his powers. He is now more willing to fight than before to aid and protect his friends though still willing to help anyone in need — even enemies, as seen when he tried to heal Jasper from creeping corruption in "Earthlings". Unfortunately, this has also gotten him in trouble as shown in "Bubbled" and "Room for Ruby" in which trying to befriend "Eyeball" and accept "Navy" as a Crystal Gem ended badly: "Eyeball" tried to kill him when she believed he was Rose Quartz due to his healing powers and "Navy" turned out to have been lying in revenge. Like his mother, he appears to be very charismatic; for example, easing a raging crowd in "Political Power", and motivating his friends and father into working out and helping Pearl to find her strength to fight Sugilite in "Coach Steven". His genuine kindness, sincerity, and capacity for empathy let him inspire friendship, trust, and love from most of the people he meets which enables him to mend others' inner turmoil and reach others who are otherwise closed off, noticeably in the cases of Peridot and Lapis Lazuli. Steven is shown to have unique tastes in entertainment. He enjoys Crying Breakfast Friends! despite his dad and the Gems' inability to understand its appeal. Steven is a bit of a romantic and loves the ending of The Spirit Morph Saga for the wedding even when Connie disagrees. "Made of Honor" further shows his enthusiasm for weddings in the form of the wedding planner book he claims to have been putting together his entire life and he shows great zeal in preparing for and performing Ruby and Sapphire's wedding in "Reunited". Despite his naivety Steven still has a more grounded and practical outlook than his three caretakers, often correcting them on normal human interactions. Though Steven frequently goes on fantastic adventures he retains a tendency to be easily impressed; he is enamored with Bill Dewey's play until Jamie points out its flaws and is also shocked to find that his Watermelon Stevens are alive and admits it should not have surprised him. While Steven is typically friendly and kind-hearted by nature, his enthusiasm and excitability can get out of hand and he ends up doing more harm than good. When this happens he can be anywhere between obnoxious, overbearing, and rude. Steven tends to let his inhibitions go out the window when doing something theatrical, as seen in "Tiger Millionaire", "Steven and the Stevens", and "Sadie's Song". His alter-ego Tiger Millionaire is the best example of Steven letting his passionate side get the better of him. The only time he has shown true anger and prejudice toward someone is Kevin in "Beach City Drift" for the way he treats Stevonnie. His dislike and desire to best Kevin lead him to fuse with Connie and the anger Stevonnie inherits is strong enough that they hallucinate and fall apart. It is Connie's sensible nature that convinces him to let his anger go. Deep down Steven feels guilt over his mother not being around and inferiority over not being able to live up to her reputation. He is unwilling to talk about this with the Gems due to thinking they blame him for Rose being gone. The only people he has opened up to about it are Amethyst, Bismuth, and the Cool Kids. He told Amethyst the reason he is working so hard is that he is not Rose Quartz and Bismuth that he does not think he can live up to his mother's standards. In "Mindful Education" it is revealed that Steven harbors guilt over the unfortunate events upon Bismuth, Jasper, and "Eyeball". Like his guilt over Rose, he tries to keep these worries secluded in his heart and to not think about it, convincing himself he had no other choice. After it is revealed by "Eyeball" in "Back to the Moon" that Rose Quartz supposedly shattered Pink Diamond he becomes more independent and rebellious towards the Gems and their authority over what he is supposed to know. In "Steven's Dream" he argues with Garnet for not telling him why he shouldn't find the broken Palanquin, figure out his dream and learn why he is shedding a constant flow of tears. As he discovers more about his mother and the effects her actions had he starts to show anger and guilt towards her over what she did. "Storm in the Room" highlights Steven's anger and confusion towards Rose over her actions and how she "disappeared" leaving him to clean up her mess. "Lion 4: Alternate Ending" shows he has become paranoid about anything having to do with Rose and her secrets and in "The Good Lars" calls her a war criminal. These feelings come to a head in "Are You My Dad?" and "I Am My Mom" when his friends are captured by Topaz and Aquamarine and he bargains to free them by offering himself instead as a way to atone for his and his mother's actions. "The Trial" highlights his resolve to atone for the shattering of Pink Diamond in that he immediately pleads guilty knowing that he would be executed. However, when Rose Quartz's crime comes into question he is shocked upon the revelation of the flaws in his mother's crime and the possibility of another Diamond being responsible for Pink Diamond's death instead of Rose Quartz. Matt Burnett and Ben Levin stated he learned he was wrong about who Rose was and wonders whether he has to carry the moral greyness she had or if he can be stronger and different. Steven's obliviousness can create problems even with those he cares about as in "Dewey Wins" he thinks Connie should be grateful to him for giving himself up to Homeworld to save her, not understanding how he hurt her until suffering the same hurt when Dewey concedes the mayoral race in spite of Steven's campaigning and urging the public to give him another chance; although this particular obliviousness could be attributed to him not being ready to face his feelings over his surrender and everything he experienced on Homeworld as well as having to deal with the emotional anguish his surrender caused his loved ones. "Kevin Party" shows him confronting the harm he did when he reunites with Connie after a few weeks apart from her and apologizes to her for giving up and brushing off her feelings.However, the aforementioned episode also shows Steven's great emotional vulnerability beforehand and how it can cause him to make impulsive and poor decisions and be subject to manipulation by others; as seen when he sees Connie sporting a new look and her and Lion (who had shared her anger with him over his surrender and stayed with her since after taking her home following their fight) seemingly having a great time at the party without him, and assumes that they've both moved on from him in their anger (mainly due to Connie's seeming complete lack of response to all of Steven's attempts to make amends throughout their estrangement and Lion never returning to Steven after taking her home). This assumption and his already emotionally vulnerable state nearly drive Steven to leave the party without even trying to talk to Connie, and ultimately, to desperately take Kevin's advice to bait her into making the first move in their reconciliation by deliberately ignoring her presence and making it seems like life is going fine for him with her gone. The advice, of course, ends up having the opposite effect, instead causing Connie to believe that Steven has given up on making amends with her after being unintentionally abandoned and shut out by her for so long, and has decided to both drop her as his best friend and replace her with Kevin, which is seemingly confirmed in her eyes when the two have an awkward encounter in which he, still under Kevin's influence, implies that he has moved on from her and Lion, and is much happier with them out of his life. Only when Connie angrily confronts him over this and nearly leaves with Lion again does Steven return to his senses, narrowly stopping them from leaving and, after discovering the reasons behind Connie's silence towards him and that she had always intended to reconcile with him, finally talks things out with her. "A Single Pale Rose" once again changes Steven's view of his mother after learning she actually was Pink Diamond. He tells Amethyst in "What's Your Problem?" he is still confused about her and her actions. "Made of Honor" and "Reunited" cement Steven's growth and maturity as he forgives Bismuth and accepts her back into the Crystal Gems with Bismuth claiming Steven as the real leader of the Crystal Gems and as he convinces Blue and Yellow Diamond to stop fighting by revealing his identity as Pink Diamond's son/reincarnation. "Familiar" gives Steven a look into his mother's relationships with Blue and Yellow Diamond, and also leads him to realizes that he and his mother have something in common: they are/were the youngest members of the Crystal Gems and Diamond Authority respectively, and were frequently underestimated due to their immaturity, but also dearly loved and doted on like children by their peers. With this, Steven decides to embrace his mother's old role on Homeworld to help convince White Diamond to cure the corrupted Gems on Earth.However, "Together Alone" shows him struggling to deal with Homeworld's stifling conformities and traditions, much like his mother did, especially when he learns that he and his friends must be split up during the ball he has decided to throw: only Pearl and Connie are allowed to remain by his side (with the latter as his "pet"), while Garnet must split up into Ruby and Sapphire, and they and Amethyst (who must wear limb enhancers) must remain with their kind of Gem. With Connie's encouragement, however, Steven decides to go against the traditions, and dances with her, but this ends up causing trouble when the two fuse, which causes an uproar that ruins the ball, and leads to the Crystal Gems, who fused in defiant support of Stevonnie, to be poofed, and Stevonnie themself to be locked away in a prison tower as punishment. This shows an at least temporary shift in their personalities, with Steven being more withdrawn and practical than he usually is, while Connie is more upbeat and impulsive than she usually is. "Change Your Mind" shows Steven finally coming to terms with himself and his mother, and after a long struggle and battle, managing to open the eyes and mindsets of all the Diamonds (including White), convincing them to restore the corrupted Gems on Earth, and drop their conforming perfectionist way of life to become better beings. Steven Universe: The Movie shows Steven at his most mature, having grown into his role as the new Pink Diamond, though he is also shown in a slightly negative light; specifically, he is shown to be very single-minded and inflexible when stressed, as he becomes so focused on saving the Earth and reclaiming his "happily ever after" that his attention is on trying to get the Crystal Gems’ memories back instead of focussing on the regenerated Spinel, and he is too focused on that task to notice that he manages to set Spinel off again when she deactivates her injector. However, he realizes his mistakes at the climax when he remembers his greatest power is changing and inspires change when trying to help Spinel. In Steven Universe Future, he retains his maturity from the movie, but can still be overbearing in trying to help others as seen in "Guidance". "Volleyball" showcases Steven's anger and frustration towards his mother after learning she gave Pink Pearl her cracked eye, causing a fair amount of destruction through his powers as a result. In "Bluebird" he shows a more snarky and sarcastic personality when dealing with Bluebird and a resurfaced Aquamarine and "Eyeball" and "A Very Special Episode" highlight his maturity and practicality as he races between Garnet and Pearl to help keep both situations under control. "Snow Day" once again showcases Steven's maturity as well as his hard-working attitude and lifestyle along with him desiring to not be seen as a child by Garnet, Amethyst and Pearl which culminates into the Gems finally accepting Steven as the person he's grown into and his understanding that they miss him as he's growing up. "Little Graduation" shows he is suffering from anxiety as all his friends move on with their lives and "Prickly Pair" shows his growing anxieties with himself and his relationships with the Gems. Throughout the latter half of Future, he resembles his mother more, particularly her faults as he runs away from problems by helping everyone else with theirs, hides his feelings and distances himself from others, and shows a literally explosive temper that causes his powers to run out of control.
"In Dreams" and "Bismuth Casual" highlight Steven's fears of drifting away from his friends and holding them back; the former episode displays his stress over his desperation to appease Peridot by using his dream powers recreating the reboot of Camp Pining Hearts (which they both dislike), and the latter displays his fears that Connie, who at this point has made other friends and is more outgoing and confident than ever before, has forgotten their friendship. Fortunately, both Peridot and Connie reaffirm their bonds with Steven by each episode's end (Peridot after apologizing to Steven for putting so much pressure on him, and Connie after fusing with him into Stevonnie and winning a skate competition).
"Together Forever" shows Steven reaching an emotional impasse in his relationship with Connie as the time for her to head off to college draws nearer; as such, he then makes the impulsive decision to propose marriage to her and follow her to college as Stevonnie in order to stay in her life and find purpose in his life. When she turns him down (at least for the time being) due to them being really young and wanting to retain her individuality, he is understanding but emotionally crushed.
"Growing Pains" showcases the aftermath of Steven's failed proposal to Connie: his body begins shapeshifting out of control due to his emotions, and Connie convinces him to go see a doctor for the first time in his life. This also shows that, as Dr. Maheswaran reveals from her examination, Steven is suffering psychological, mental, and emotional trauma (most likely, but not confirmed to be PTSD) due to the traumatic events throughout the original series and movie dating back to his childhood that is starting to flare up now that those in Steven's support system (e.g. his family and friends) are moving on with their own goals and lives, and implies that Connie's declining of Steven's proposal might have set his emotionally-charged shapeshifting off. However, the episode also shows the good that comes from Steven talking his problem out with someone, namely his father who afterward assures his son he'll be there for him during the tough times.
"Mr. Universe" highlights Steven getting to know more about his father's family and his father's life before coming to Beach City and meeting Rose. However, Steven becomes disillusioned after learning his father's backstory was similar to his mother's: Greg was brought up with strict, overbearing parents who controlled his life and never supported his interests which led to him running away to take control of his destiny. This revelation leaves Steven feeling resentful over being denied typical childhood experiences (such as going to school and the doctor) and likely causes him to conclude that the lack of normalcy in his childhood has left him unable to deal with his trauma or figure out what to do with his life.
In "Fragments", Steven's insecurities about himself, his life, and his powers finally lead to him breaking away from his family and running away to the one he feels can understand him: Jasper. This also displays a ruthless and darker Steven as he hones the destructive side of his powers with Jasper's training. He also becomes arrogant about his newfound abilities as seen when he kisses his bicep, something even Jasper is annoyed by. As a result, he decides to no longer hold back, enjoying the thrill of fighting and the freedom of using his full power which culminates in him gleefully shattering Jasper in a rematch of their fight from "Little Homeschool". However, Steven retains his kind and remorseful attributes as shown when he brings Jasper's gemstone shards home after calming down from his battle high and uses his and the Diamonds' essences to restore it. Unfortunately, when Jasper addresses him as "my Diamond" after reforming Steven is left reeling with horror as he realizes that by shattering Jasper out of aggression, he has broken his principles and seemingly become the one person he fought against being compared to for so long: his mother.
"Fragments" and "Homeworld Bound" reveal that Steven harbors a suppressed desire for vengeance against all who ever willingly wronged him, especially the Diamonds and those under their command from Homeworld; he is irritated by them and Spinel acting friendly after everything they had done to hurt him and his loved ones and nearly shatters White Diamond's gemstone when given control of her body.
"Everything's Fine" shows Steven's mental health nearing its lowest when, after returning from Homeworld, he puts on a cheerful façade and tries to help everyone like he used to. However, due to his enhanced powers, his interference only leads to disaster in everything he tries to help with. When his loved ones confront him in an intervention, Steven finally lets loose the bad things that occurred with him since leaving Little Homeschool, including Jasper's shattering, which shocks everyone. This, combined with his PTSD, sense of purposelessness, and failure to help others, leads to Steven denouncing himself as worse than his mother; a fraud and a monster. This triggers an emotional meltdown and transformation into an actual monster.
"I Am My Monster" shows Steven's complete emotional meltdown as he, now transformed into the monster he sees himself as, goes on a rampage as the Crystal Gems and later the Diamonds, Spinel, and the Cluster tries to keep him from hurting anyone and find a way to change him back. However, after they all manage to embrace him in a group hug, showing that they love him unconditionally and will always be there no matter what, Steven is finally able to calm down, return to normal, and let out his years of emotional baggage.
"The Future", taking place a few months later, reveals Steven is in a better place thanks to both his loved ones and therapy and has made plans to leave Beach City to see the world and make his own destiny like his father, leaving Greg his old room. It is also implied that he is now officially in a relationship with Connie as they kiss just before he leaves, and they make plans to meet with each other during his travels and her college tours with help from Lion beforehand. He also gives each of the Crystal Gems a parting gift and shares an emotional farewell with the main three and the townspeople before driving out of Beach City for seemingly the last time (at least for the foreseeable future).

As a human/Gem hybrid, Steven possesses unique physiology, resembling a fusion of a Gem and a human. He is capable of using Gem magic, though it is unknown if he possesses all the abilities of a pure Gem, such as retreating to their gemstone when taking fatal damage. As associated with his gemstone, Steven's powers are maternal and the control of his gemstone is based on emotional clarity.
Steven has shown to have some abilities of a regular Gem, but sometimes has little control over them due to not receiving enough training. He can warp using the Warp Pads and bubble objects and gemstones to be teleported to the Temple with seemingly full control. He is not strictly oxygen-dependent and is vacuum-resistant as shown in "Ocean Gem" and "Space Race". He also shows that he can fuse, as he can fuse with Connie to form Stevonnie. While in the beginning, they tend to fuse spontaneously when they dance and while thinking about each other, by "Beach City Drift" they fuse and re-fuse into Stevonnie at will. Furthermore, he has also been shown to be able to fuse with other Gems as well, as he first fused with Amethyst to form Smoky Quartz in "Earthlings". However, this ability to fuse is only possible through his gem and training, and once his gemstone was affected by Spinel's rejuvenator, fusing with his father proved to be extremely exhausting for Steven and severely weakened him since he lost the power and focus he originally had.
Steven is also capable of shapeshifting, but he has not yet learned to fully control it. His first attempt in "Cat Fingers" was disastrous, temporarily turning him into a cat monster. He has not been able to change his form entirely but can freely shapeshift parts of his body as seen in "Too Short to Ride". His greatest feat in shapeshifting is seen in "Steven's Birthday", where he can use shapeshifting to make himself appear older.
Despite his happy-go-lucky and cheerful attitude, he shows himself to be a competent shield fighter and can hold his own in most situations with his skill consistently increasing due to practice.
The final battle with Spinel in Steven Universe: The Movie shows him at the peak of his abilities as he fights her one on one, showing that he has grown exceptionally skilled since he was a child, able to either withstand or counter everything Spinel throws at him.
"Fragments" shows a new level of Steven's abilities as he fights Jasper in his pink state, showing increased strength, speed, and the ability to fly.
Despite being educated in an isolated environment and never attending conventional school, he possesses a good deal of knowledge not only on general topics, but also in scientific and technical fields like physics, chemistry, and geography due to being educated by the highly intellectual Pearl. However, due to the Crystal Gems' obliviousness about some human activities, he is quite oblivious about some social terms, like "nuclear family". The prime example is during his conversation with Connie about a family gathering in which Connie mentions the concept of a nuclear family, which makes Steven think that she thinks the Crystal Gems are radioactive. Another example is that when Connie introduces Steven to her favorite novel series, Steven had no idea about the order of the books in the series and was reading them out of order.
Fusions
When fused with Connie, they form Stevonnie.
When fused with Greg, they form Steg.
When fused with Amethyst, they form Smoky Quartz.
When fused with Pearl, they form Rainbow Quartz 2.0.
When fused with Ruby and Sapphire, they form Sunstone.
He could also form Sunstone by fusing with Garnet.
When fused with Ruby, Sapphire, Amethyst, and Pearl, they form Obsidian.
He could also form Obsidian by fusing with Garnet and Opal, Pearl and Sugilite, Amethyst and Sardonyx, or Alexandrite.
Skillset
Piloting: In "Legs From Here to Homeworld", he controls his mother's old ship to get a running start to take off. In "Change Your Mind", Yellow tells Steven to take a knee and Steven kneels to control it on the outside.
Driving: In Steven Universe Future, Steven is seen driving the Dondai Supremo, suggesting he has his driver's license.
Multitasking: In Steven Universe: The Movie, Steven is able to defend himself against Spinel while also trying to talk things out with her.
Natural Abilities
Shapeshifting: Steven possesses some level of the natural shapeshifting abilities typical of Gems, which he first displayed in "Cat Fingers" when he shapeshifts his hands to have cats for fingers, but he lost control of this rather quickly. As of "Too Short to Ride", he is shown to be much better at using this ability than before, being able to stretch various parts of his body at will repeatedly, though as with Amethyst he can only do this for a certain amount of time and his half-human nature puts more of a strain on his body than it would a Gem. In the episode "Snow Day" Steven demonstrates the ability to shapeshift into his younger form. In "I Am My Monster" he shows that he can completely transform into a Gem monster many times his size and height.
Fluctuating Age: As revealed in the episode "So Many Birthdays", Steven can manipulate his age through his state of mind. Steven's age depends solely on how old he thinks he is. Uncontrollable age-changing could also potentially be caused by his emotions like most of his powers. This ability is an extension of Gem shapeshifting, however, due to his organic half, by shapeshifting into the body of an elderly man, Steven's body may actually fail as a result, as shown in "So Many Birthdays". "Fragments" shows him age slightly as he trains with Jasper.
Monster State: Due to all of his emotional grief, PTSD, and sense of purposelessness, Steven viewed himself as a monster and therefore transformed into one at the end of "Everything's Fine". In this state, he has a bestial mentality not unlike a Corrupted Gem; only much more powerful and dangerous than before. He was able to quickly defeat Alexandrite, completely resist the powers of all three Diamonds, break free of Lapis' water chains, and even overpower The Cluster. It's implied by Sapphire that he would've remained in this state forever if they did not intervene. However, once all of the Crystal Gems, the Diamonds, Spinel, The Cluster, Greg, and Connie all got through to him through their words and love, this managed to snap Steven out of this state and turn him back to normal.
Superhuman Strength: Steven occasionally performs feats of strength that would be impossible for a human boy his age, or even a grown man. In "Together Breakfast", Steven can lift and force the Together Breakfast in its mutated state into the lava pool in the Burning Room without the other Crystal Gems' abatement. He also displays a large amount of strength in "Arcade Mania" when he rips off the top of the Meat Beat Mania arcade game to break Garnet from her trance.
He displays an even further amount of strength in "The Return" when he smashes Greg's Van's dashboard with a single punch, apparently hard enough to both shatter it and activate the airbags. In "Joy Ride", he can move Jenny away from the Escape Pod with little effort. Later on in "Friend Ship", he is shown to be strong enough to throw his shield hard enough to stun Peridot. When Peridot is unable to open the lid to the power grid in "When It Rains", Steven can open it with little effort, though this may have been for comedic effect as opposed to an actual feat of strength. He can rip off the control panel from the drill machine when it malfunctions in "Too Far". In "Drop Beat Dad", he easily lifts a crate of musical gear, a task that requires two adult humans to achieve.
As Gems are much stronger and durable than their appearance would indicate, Steven's superhuman strength is most likely passed down to him from his mother. In even more recent episodes, his strength is even more evident, as he was able to throw a large stone statue back at Bismuth, hurl a large rock at Amethyst, and throw Peridot into the air. As seen in "Future Boy Zoltron", Steven's strength is underestimated and unintentional in situations by even himself, as tapping the Zoltron robot made it fall over and shatter into pieces. In "The Zoo", he punched his father with enough force to knock him back several feet and easily carried him overhead as he ran from the Zoo.
Steven's strength was further demonstrated in "Tiger Philanthropist", when he managed to fight off several conditioned adult men without tiring, including being able to lift an adult male human above his head and throw him a considerable distance. In "Lars' Head", he is shown to fairly easily push a boulder that both the Rutile Twins and Rhodonite combined were unable to move, causing the twins to even remark "Woah, strong." while all three Gems stared at him in awe. In "Back to the Kindergarten", Steven carried a rock stack that was at least a few times taller than himself while showing no strain. Even when he was significantly weakened, in Steven Universe: The Movie, Steven was strong enough to momentarily lift the gargantuan drill out of the ground.
Martial Arts: Steven has been shown to exhibit martial arts moves while wrestling during "Tiger Philanthropist". Due to his superhuman strength, these moves can easily injure or knock out other humans when used by Steven. He can also go blow for blow with Spinel and was able to impress Jasper.
Superhuman Speed: As shown in "Greg the Babysitter", Steven has the power to travel faster than any normal human. In his pink state, he is capable of moving at a percentage of light speed.
Superhuman Durability: As shown in "Steven vs. Amethyst" and "Bismuth", Steven is more durable than what his human physiology and stature would lead one to believe. Befitting his nature as a half-diamond Gem, his body can take a great amount of punishment, as seen when Amethyst swings him down from the air and into the floor of the Ancient Sky Arena, he can stand up and continue fighting despite being seen with torn clothes, scratches, and bruises. In "Bismuth", when Bismuth tossed a training statue at Steven and slammed him into a wall during their fight, he emerged with several scratches yet was not badly injured. In "Adventures in Light Distortion", Steven's durability allowed him to handle the full force of faster-than-light space travel. While the other Crystal Gems were unable to hold their physical forms together, Steven was not only able to survive, but also show no sign of internal or external injuries. In his final battle with Spinel, he shows that using his shield he can withstand every blow she throws at him without injury, while the injector beneath him cracked and shattered from the force. In "Growing Pains, his conversation with Priyanka Maheswaran reveals an X-Ray of Steven's skeleton, showing numerous physical injuries and fractures that seemed to heal nearly instantly (according to her diagnosis). While she isn't entirely sure how it works, it shows that a number of Steven's injuries were seemingly healed shortly after the damage was made.
Gem Weaponry Resistance: Because Steven is half-human, he is resistant to anti-Gem weaponry. He can pass through the yellow destabilization fields used in the Gem Warship and can grab the live end of a Gem Destabilizer with only mild discomfort. It is unknown what long-term exposure would do to him. However, repeated strikes from a Gem Rejuvenator will render him powerless.
Intelligence: Though never directly stated, Steven is shown to be extremely intelligent in his own right. He is a natural problem solver, as most of his early adventures relied on him using intelligence and creativity to get himself out of trouble without the use of his powers. He is also able to converse with the highly intelligent Connie on an equal footing since they first met. For much of the early series, his intelligence was overshadowed by his immaturity, something that has faded as he has matured and shown how deeply he thinks about things, particularly what he has learned about Rose Quartz, even though he actively tries not to. "Snow Day" shows Steven's intelligence and organization as he works on the class schedule for Little Homeschool.
Unique Abilities
Due to possessing Pink Diamond's gemstone he shares most, if not all of his unique abilities with her.
Shield Proficiency: Steven can summon Rose's shield. Because Steven's powers are maternal, he is required to feel a strong need to protect and help others to call his shield out. Early on, he had little to no control over how to summon it, only calling it forth by chance or when in mortal danger. As of "Sworn to the Sword", Steven is now able to not only summon his shield with little effort but also increase its size at will. He appears to have become quite skilled in wielding it as he was able to use it in conjunction with his protective bubble and defend against Pearl's strikes. Unlike some other Gems, instead of "pulling" his shield out of his gemstone, it appears over his arms similar to Garnet's gauntlets appearing over her hands. As of "Friend Ship", he has become completely capable of summoning his shield at any moment he requires it, even being able to scale his shield large enough to defend the Crystal Gems. It should be noted, however, that overuse of his shield exhausts Steven (such as using it three times in one day), though he has since overcome this weakness. The shield is remarkably durable. The greatest testaments of its durability are shown in "The Return" when it was able to withstand a charged shot from the Gem Warship, and Steven Universe: The Movie, where it was able to withstand an attack from Spinel that cracked (and eventually shattered) her entire injector. As of "Crack the Whip", Steven can summon his Shield as many times as he wants without tiring, even summoning more than one. This shows that his exhaustion was possibly due to inexperience. The shield also has reflective properties strong enough to reflect a laser fired from a scanning Robonoid, as seen in "Off Colors".
Tag-team Combat: Due to the close bond they share, Steven can coordinate his shield techniques perfectly with Connie's swordplay, such as fighting back-to-back to defend and attack simultaneously or catapulting Connie from his shield for a powerful lunge attack.
Dual Wielding: As seen in "Crack the Whip", Steven can manifest more than one shield.
Projectile Shield: Steven, when in great excitement, can throw his shield as a projectile with great speed and power. In "Friend Ship", he weaponizes it as a ranged attack against Peridot, hitting her in the head with enough accuracy to temporarily stun her. In "Crack the Whip", Steven throws two shields at once in a sparring match with Connie. As seen in "Steven vs. Amethyst", Steven can boomerang his shield off of several targets, causing it to return to his hand. His shield also has razor-sharp edges and can cut through substances as tough as a solid rock before returning to him, hitting Amethyst in the process, showing Steven's growing skill in this technique. The shield may also have potential to damage metal, as seen in its debut in "Gem Glow", where Steven got so excited, he accidentally had it ricochet off the roof, floor, and walls of the Beach House on the Crystal Temple, until it hit Steven's TV, impaling and damaging it.
Shield Vibration: On certain occasions when Steven's shield is hit, it emits an audible vibration that disables magical constructs. In "Ocean Gem", it destabilizes Lapis Lazuli's Water Clones when a ball of water hits Steven's shield. It also seems to play a brief role in "Sworn to the Sword", when a Holo-Pearl attacks his shield, and it promptly deactivates (the same sound in the former episode can be heard as it does).
Diamond Aura Projection: While interacting with Blue and Yellow Diamond in the astral dimension, Steven was able to manifest and project a powerful pink aura, which convinced them that he was truly Pink Diamond reincarnated.
Healing: Steven has the power to heal animals and plants, as well as repair Gems and inanimate objects. He is shown to be capable of healing cracked gemstones as seen when he healed Lapis Lazuli in "Ocean Gem". He can also heal common human injuries and conditions, seen when he healed Connie's eyesight in "An Indirect Kiss" and Greg's broken leg in "House Guest". In "The Test", Pearl remarks to the other Crystal Gems that he has lost his healing ability and that their test should hopefully increase his confidence and therefore prevent him from losing any other abilities. In "Monster Reunion", Steven's healing abilities came back to heal Master of Ceremonies Bear Bear, showing conclusively that his powers affect inanimate objects, and can partially heal the Centipeetle Mother. In "Bubbled", Steven successfully heals "Eyeball"'s cracked gem. He generally applies this healing saliva directly by licking his hand and placing it on the injury, but a comment by a Ruby in "Volleyball" suggests he will sometimes use a kiss.
Resurrection: Like his mother, Steven possesses the ability to resurrect the dead with his magic tears. The recipient turns pink and gains special abilities, such as the ability to grant access to the Pink Dimension through their hair as well as an extremely slowed metabolism and heart rate. Two known cases of this are Lion and Lars.
Corruption Reversal: As demonstrated on Nephrite in "Legs From Here to Homeworld", Steven, along with Blue Diamond, Yellow Diamond, can temporarily reverse the effects of the Corrupting Light on Gems. And it's shown in "Change Your Mind" that they can heal the effects permanently when all four diamonds sit in Rose's Fountain together with the corrupted Gems.
Shatter Reversal: As shown in "Fragments", Steven, along with the rest of the Diamonds' essence, is able to completely repair a shattered Gem.
Self Healing: As displayed in "Growing Pains", Steven endured a lot of physical trauma during his adventures, and an x-ray reveals that his injuries had already been repaired.
Phytoanimation: Like his mother, Steven possesses limited control and influence over plant life. Using his healing saliva, Steven can grow sentient and sapient flora by licking plant seeds. In "Watermelon Steven", Steven discovers he can grow watermelons shaped like himself. They act as his bodyguards, but they are not directly under his control, and the Watermelon Stevens ignore his orders and attack whoever they think is threatening him, suggesting that he does not have full mastery of this ability thus far. It seems that this has changed, as once Pumpkin was brought to life, it was completely non-hostile and possessed its own opinions of others. It is also possible that, in the case of Pumpkin, Steven had full knowledge of the ability and thus control over it, whereas in the case of the Watermelon Stevens, it was accidental. It is unknown if this is a unique ability or an extension of the Diamonds' ability to bring life.
Pebble Animation: As demonstrated in "Familiar", Steven's sweat can turn inanimate pebbles into living Pebbles.
Bubble Shield: Steven can summon an incredibly durable bubble, as shown in "Bubble Buddies". The bubble encases him and others that he is protecting. In "Sworn to the Sword", it is shown that Steven is capable of summoning it reflexively, as he instinctively summons his bubble to protect himself and Connie due to his wariness of Holo-Pearls as a result of the events in "Steven the Sword Fighter". In "Nightmare Hospital", it is shown that Steven can expand his bubble to push away enemies. In "I Am My Mom", Steven used his bubble to free himself and his friends from Topaz, though it required a great deal of concentration to do so. In "Bubble Buddies" and "Bubbled", it is implied that the bubble can generate its internal atmosphere, as Steven and Connie could survive in the bubble for hours despite it being airtight and Steven is even able to breathe inside one he had just generated in the vacuum of space. While the bubble is incredibly durable, it is better at withstanding short, narrow bursts of pressure, such as being hit with a harpoon, than a large amount of pressure constantly being applied over a large area of the bubble, such as in "Nightmare Hospital", when the Gem Mutants hit Steven's bubble, the pressure causes little ripples to spread across the bubble, and in "Gem Hunt", when a corrupted Ocean Jasper stomped on his bubble with enough force to cause it to lose its circular shape and pop. This was most likely Steven intentionally allowing the bubble to become malleable so that it would pop instead of shatter so that he and Connie would be thrown away instead of crushed by the monster. The bubble could also be shattered, as demonstrated by a corrupted Biggs Japer shattering it after exerting massive amounts of pressure on it.
Shape Alteration: Steven can change the size of his bubble, as well as change its shape from a sphere into a variety of other shapes - for instance, causing sharp spikes to appear along its surface, or stretching it to encompass and protect other people. The versatility of this ability has increased as Steven has grown, and is fully on display during his battle with Spinel in Steven Universe: The Movie.
Bubble Gloves: Steven can create small, hard bubbles around his fists like boxing gloves, enhancing the strength of his punches and his ability to block attacks.
Popping: Steven can "pop" his bubble to knock surrounding enemies back, as seen in "Nightmare Hospital", where he knocked much larger Gem mutants back by popping his bubble. His bubble will also pop if he is startled, as seen in "Sworn to the Sword", when Pearl startles Steven, or if immense pressure is applied to the bubble, as seen in "Gem Hunt" when the Snow Monster popped Steven's bubble by stomping on it.
The extent of the bubble's durability is unknown, although it has survived most of the following:
The tremendous pressure of an ocean trench ("Bubble Buddies").
Being crushed by a falling injector ("On the Run").
A spaceship crash ("Jail Break", "Jungle Moon").
The entire Gem Warship detonating ("Jail Break").
Empathic Telepathy:[4] In "Horror Club", Steven can sense the Lighthouse Gem Monster's presence as well as its emotional state. In the episode "Chille Tid", it is shown that Steven can communicate with Gems through his dreams. Steven talks to Lapis Lazuli mentally as he was dreaming. He also saw Jasper and Malachite in the same dream at Malachite's Realm and they noticed him as well. Steven was later shown in "Gem Drill" to be able to communicate with a distressed Cluster while it was struggling to form. In "Kiki's Pizza Delivery Service", he helps Kiki battle her inner demons in her dreams. This ability has primarily come to light while other beings are under emotional turmoil. "Kiki's Pizza Delivery Service" shows with Kiki that Steven can also enter the dreams of other humans, but also that repeated use of this power can physically exhaust him, as sleeping in this state seems to provide no restful benefit that would otherwise be gained from typical sleep. In "Steven's Dream", he shows a strange development of this ability, in being able to subconsciously see through the eyes of Blue Diamond, while crying her tears. This can even happen when he's awake, if in close enough proximity to her, though this may be a result of Blue Diamond's empathetic powers seen in "The Trial". In "Together Alone", in Steven's dream that his mother juggled then coughed up was the hair of Rose Quartz that the nightmare was made by White Diamond who can see in his dreams and "Change Your Mind", another nightmare that the Diamonds direct attack on Steven which the light flickers him between himself, Rose Quartz, and Pink Diamond and again by White.
Mind Transfer: First shown in "Super Watermelon Island", when he can take control of a Watermelon Steven, Steven can transfer his consciousness into another living being he has a connection with while his own body is asleep. The true mind of the host body lays dormant while he is in control of it. The full extent of this ability is unknown. In "The New Lars", Steven is shown to be able to possess someone (in this instance Lars) he thinks about while he sleeps. It is shown in the episode "Escapism" that this ability is strong enough to reach from Homeworld to Earth, which is likely many lightyears away.
Mind Link: First shown in "Steven's Dream", Steven can link his mind with another being. This power allows Steven to feel the target's emotions and see the world through their eyes. For example, if the target is crying, Steven will cry as well, regardless of his current emotional state. When Steven sleeps, his dream will be whatever the target is looking at. Steven does not have to willingly link minds with a person for this power to work since he did not originally know his mind was linked with Blue Diamond.
Psychometry/Retrocognition: First shown in "Jungle Moon", when fused with Connie as Stevonnie. He can relive moments experienced by his mother Pink Diamond, either as an observer or as Pink Diamond herself. This only occurs when he is sleeping somewhere of great significance to his mother. When fused, the subjects of these memories can appear as amalgamations of figures both components consider to be similar. Steven is unaware of the nature of the memories at first, and it can sometimes take him a while to realize he's reliving Pink Diamond's experiences. In "Can't Go Back", he observes the shadows of the Diamonds and even Pearl. In "Together Alone" and "Change Your Mind", he sees things as Pink Diamond.
Astral Projection: It is shown in "Reunited" that if Steven is knocked out hard enough, his mind will go into an astral dimension while his body remains comatose. While in this state, he cannot interact or communicate with anyone in the physical world unless he phases through them. It is unknown how Steven can return to the physical world on his own. Steven used this new ability to inspire his teammates to keep fighting and convince the Diamonds to halt their attack.
Electrical Interference: In "Maximum Capacity", Steven appeared to be able to control Greg's TV-based upon his emotion. For instance, when he was shocked, the television went to static. In the episode "In Dreams", his dreams were projected onto the TV in his bedroom, confirming this to be a power of his. This ability appears to originate from his telepathy interfering with nearby radio signals.
Speed of Descent Regulation: As shown in "Steven Floats", Steven, like Rose, can levitate his body and even manipulate its gravity based on his emotions. When he thinks happy thoughts, he floats slowly to the ground, while when he is sad or angry, he descends much quicker. While floating slowly, anything he touches will also float just as slowly, no matter how large. This also allows him to jump higher than normal, having to be able to jump up to the temple's face and even above the clouds. It was first seen in "Rose's Scabbard" as Steven leaps to a floating land island to reach Pearl, however, her turning to suddenly look at him causes him to break in concentration and fall to catch himself on the island's roots. Steven is shown to have some control over his powers in "Steven vs. Amethyst" and in "Monster Reunion" when he easily leaps up to get to Nephrite's bubble and safely descend again. He displays his ability to jump extreme distances again in "Steven's Dream", when attempting to catch Blue Diamond's ship, but is blasted back by the ship taking off. Numerous times in Steven Universe Future he has shown to have mastered the ability to the extent that he can all but fly, hovering in the air and even jumping off his own shield to ricochet around as seen in his fight against jasper. "Fragments" shows that in his pink state he can hover.
Pink State: According to Priyanka Maheswaran because Steven experienced a great deal of physical and emotional trauma from his numerous adventures and ordeals during his childhood, it affected his body's ability to respond to minor stress normally. As a result, Steven's body began reacting to new stress as if he was in a life-or-death situation. This response manifested as a defense mechanism known as pink state. In this state, Steven's body (except his clothes) glows pink, and his strength, speed, and destructive energy output became tremendous. Steven in this state was able to easily outmatch Jasper in a fight - for instance, knocking her through many large trees with one bubble-enhanced punch, and even shattering her - as well as do significant damage to the walls of The Reef just by shouting. However, Steven had little to no control over this state; he entered it automatically when angry or when he experienced anxiety, and it put him at risk of accidentally hurting people near him. During his training with Jasper, he managed to maintain this state for a prolonged period of time and gain some control, during which he gained a greater degree of strength and a change in personality. However, he eventually lost all self-restraint as a result, enjoying the thrill of the battle and actually shattering Jasper. The ability of the pink state appeared to also extend to abilities of fusions as well, as demonstrated by Smoky Quartz in "Guidance". So far, the demonstrated abilities have been:
Heightened overall speed and great accuracy when moving at this speed. It has been used to combat Jasper, Bluebird, "Eyeball", and Aquamarine all of whom could not keep up. He can also move so quickly that time is nearly standing still. This ability is demonstrated in "Fragments" when he runs away from the Crystal Gems or races against Jasper. Smoky Quartz is demonstrated to also be able to use this power as in "Guidance".
Increased physical strength capable of shattering several large trees. The physical power varies. When facing Jasper or when angry at The Reef, Steven demonstrated incredible power far beyond his natural strength. When facing Bluebird, Steven didn't appear to strike them as hard while still hitting hard enough to knock his opponent(s) around.
A scream that, by Pink Pearl's own words, "could shatter the walls." As seen in the episode "Volleyball", this scream was powerful enough to almost completely ruin the Reef, creating a large crater beneath him, breaking many lights and cracking the walls.
A powerful shield dome that can close inwards, and only releases once Steven calms down and comes to terms with his anxiety. It is different from the bubble shield in that it appears as a series of interlocked diamond shapes that disappear in groups when deactivated. When it first manifested, it demonstrated the ability to carve through several solid objects, slicing them apart at the impact.
Uncontrollable manipulation of his own body proportions.
Hexagonal pink shields that are capable of completely repelling boulders thrown by a strong fighter such as Jasper. Steven can stack a number of them to make a thicker one or wall of them, or protrude spikes from them that can be thrown with enough force to completely shatter a gem. He can also summon these shields in his normal form as seen in "Homeworld Bound".

Weaknesses
Unique/Hybrid Physiology: Steven inherits vulnerabilities from both the Gem and human sides of his family — for instance, he is dependent on his gemstone but also needs to sustain and take care of his body. When White Diamond removed his gemstone in "Change Your Mind", he was split into two separate entities embodying his half-human, half-Gem nature: his human half was extremely weak while his Gem half lacked self-restraint and both halves sought to reunite with each other.
Power-control Loss: He often has little to no control over his Gem abilities which tend to fluctuate erratically from time to time such as when Greg faked his leg still being broken in "House Guest" and cost him his healing powers until "Monster Reunion", much to Pearl's anger and dismay. It is later learned that his abilities are tied to his moods: if Steven is happy, he has access to the majority of his powers, but if he is greatly disturbed, they either malfunction or fail entirely. As stated before, if struck repeatedly by the rejuvenator, he is rendered powerless unless he can piece himself back together. In Steven Universe Future, he enters a supercharged state similar to his Gem-half when fighting Jasper. Afterwards, this goes out of control when feeling extreme emotions.
Personality: Throughout most of the series, Steven's greatest weakness was his immaturity. Despite being brave, caring, intelligent and quick-thinking, he often let his youth, naivety, optimism and excitability get the better of him, only causing problems or making them worse rather than fixing them. This aspect faded as he matured and became stronger and less excitable. However, he still retained the tendency to try and look on the brighter side of situations and act as a bigger person. There have been many times where Steven was trying to make friends out of enemies — although his attempts have backfired on multiple occasions — while other times, along with his inherited gemstone, led many others to mistake him for his mother or a reincarnation of her. In the movie adaptation of the show, his desire for a "happily ever after" led to Spinel renewing her assault which he only realized when she had him within an inch of his life. He was shown to have inherited his mother's overbearing, controlling nature and tendency to run from personal problems by focusing on others as seen in Steven Universe Future which also showcases Steven's emotional outbursts that cause power surges and even damage to his surroundings as an aspect of his mother's behavior revealed earlier in "Volleyball". Additionally, Steven has only just begun to realize the magnitude of the countless dangers he was exposed to while living with the Gems and throughout the entire series, resulting in him turning into a giant monster.

Trivia
Steven's name and appearance are based on Rebecca Sugar's brother, Steven Sugar, who is a background artist for the show.
Steven shares his birthday with Steven Sugar, August 15.[7] This means that their birthstone is peridot.
On a similar note, Steven's name if he were a girl, Nora, was a name almost given to Rebecca before she was born.
When viewed from the back, the bumps of Steven's hair form a rose shape, though this is more visible on the Funko Pop! figurines than in the show.[8]
In the transition from the pilot to the series, Steven underwent only two significant changes: the removal of the gold ring around his gemstone, and the gemstone facet being flipped right-side up.
Steven is home-schooled by the Gems.[9] According to the comic Steven Universe: Too Cool for School, Pearl and Garnet's education for Steven is so effective that Steven gets a perfect score on a conventional human school's standardized test, despite being there just one day. "Bismuth Casual" shows he knows so little about how schools work, he claims to be in "grade 16".
In "Together Breakfast", he had a phone that resembles an iPhone. It was destroyed by Garnet after he took a picture of the Evil Spirit Scroll.
However, as of "House Guest", a new phone can be seen on his nightstand and again in "Full Disclosure" when he uses it.
Steven is a musical prodigy.[10]
Steven was taught by Greg how to play the ukulele when he was only a toddler, as shown in the Extended Intro.
In "Steven and the Stevens", it is shown that Steven does play not only the ukulele, but also the guitar, bass, and drums.
He even plays the piano in "Mr. Greg".
He also has a perfect pitch.[10]
This ability is shown explicitly in "It Could've Been Great".
His performance of "Let's Only Think About Love" in "Reunited" shows he can sing falsetto.
Steven seemingly can breathe in space, as shown in "Ocean Gem" when Lapis Lazuli confronts him at the top of her water tower, even though he has to hold his breath in the Pink Dimension in "Lion 3: Straight to Video" and had to have a bubble around him to breathe in space in "Bubbled".
However, this could simply be a script error.
In "Warp Tour", Steven is revealed to be allergic to pollen.
It is revealed in "Story for Steven" that Steven's T-shirt is one of his dad's old T-shirts he made in his musical career.
Steven seems to like drawing, as is shown in the episodes "Tiger Millionaire" when he drew the poster of Purple Puma and Tiger Millionaire, "Shirt Club" when he drew Greg, "Open Book" when he drew a picture of Lisa and Archimicarus from The Spirit Morph Saga, when he drew the locations map in Attack the Light, when he drew Lapis Lazuli and Peridot holding hands on an apology card in "Barn Mates", and when he was drawing the poster for Sadie Killer and the Suspects in "The Big Show". In "In Dreams", he is shown creating a Camp Pining Hearts character that looks very similar to him.
His style is considered crude by many characters and is a recurring running gag throughout the series.
According to an interview with Rebecca Sugar in 2015, the Gem that Steven knew the least about at that point in the show is Pearl.[11]
Steven owns a few video game systems, including what appears to be a Nintendo 64, a Nintendo GameCube, and a Nintendo Game Boy. He also owns what appear to be copies of The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker and Animal Crossing. He is also shown playing a fictional game, Golf Quest Mini, on his N64.
Steven is referenced in another Cartoon Network series, Uncle Grandpa, twice; first in the episode "Haunted RV", as a kid has a costume that resembles Steven's outfit, and second in "Pizza Eve", where he and the other Crystal Gems had a cameo, Steven himself even had a short line.
Steven sometimes refers to himself in the third person. This is possibly a riff on the "Third-Person Person" trope. This is most commonly used by young characters in media to sound cute or endearing.
Joe Johnston revealed on his Tumblr that Steven is his favorite character from the show.[12]
Since Steven's biological age can be controlled by his state of mind, he possibly could live forever just like the other Crystal Gems if he learned how to control this ability.
Steven is prone to motion sickness, particularly when quickly spinning.
As seen in "Catch and Release", Steven polishes his gemstone.
In "Say Uncle", Uncle Grandpa told Steven that he should polish his gemstone at least twice a year. In real life, rose quartzes don't need to be polished, while diamonds require professional cleaning twice a year, likely making Uncle Grandpa's line foreshadowing the reveal in "A Single Pale Rose".
Throughout the show, Steven is shown to have impressive cooking skills. He is shown to have cooked various complicated dishes like the together breakfast in "Together Breakfast" and his salmon sandwich in "Onion Friend", and is generally seen cooking alone. He was even able to create fries and pizza bagels that surpass Kofi Pizza and Mr. Fryman's products, forcing them to beg him not to make them for profit out of fear for their livelihoods. This is possibly out of necessity; since the Gems do not require food, Steven had to learn how to cook on his own.
Steven has shown with Connie, Amethyst, Pearl, and Garnet that he does not need to dance to fuse, only requiring physical contact and an emotional connection to his partner.
So far, all but four of his known fusions exclusively use "they/them" pronouns. This is since they are fusions with either a Gem, who use "she/her" pronouns, or Connie, a human female. Of the four exceptions:
Rainbow Quartz 2.0 also uses "he/him" pronouns, and Sunstone and Obsidian also use "she/her".
Steg is the only fusion involving Steven that solely uses "he/him" pronouns.
It is revealed in "Gem Heist" that Steven hates loincloths.
The episode "Jungle Moon" is the only episode where Steven himself is absent; instead, the episode is told from Stevonnie's perspective.
As seen in "Reunited", Steven has the power to officiate weddings in the state of Delmarva. However, it is also possible that it was not a formal marriage.
Steven's bubble boxing gloves are similar to the Bari Bari No Pistol technique of the character Bartolomeo from One Piece, which is one of Rebecca Sugar's favorite anime.
White Diamond's nickname for Steven, "Starlight", is similar to how Marty gave the nickname "Star Child" to Greg.
Steven's new power surges could be referencing the trope of characters who struggle with their inner power, like Ichigo and his hollow from Bleach, Naruto and Kurama from Naruto, Meliodas and his demonic heritage (via his Demon Mark) from Seven Deadly Sins.
Steven's transformation being inflicted according to his emotions is also similar to the transformation of the Super Saiyans of the Dragon Ball franchise.
Steven's added arsenal of powers in his pink state is also similar to is Meliodas' Berzerk state and Assault Mode.
Steven transforming into a pink monster is very similar to the Saiyans transforming into Great Apes, Naruto with Kurama.
He enjoys tomato soup, as seen in "Bluebird".
In the episode "Snow Day", it is revealed that Steven has been a vegetarian for about a month, drinks protein shakes for breakfast, has his own skin-care routine, and avoids too much sugar like the Together Breakfast, indicating a healthier lifestyle than what he had in the original series. While he is later seen eating a fish in "Fragments", it is unknown if this means he had, at least at the time, abandoned his vegetarian diet altogether or if he is a pescetarian (a sub-type of vegetarian who abstains from all types of meat except seafood).
"Prickly Pair" shows that Steven has hidden issues with each of the Gems he has never talked about. He believes that he can't tell Pearl anything without her blaming herself and falling apart, that Garnet acts "high and mighty" and lectures him, and that Amethyst is only "acting" mature and needs to get over herself.
"Growing Pains" shows that all of the Gem missions Steven went on made him incapable of managing normal human-level stress.
Considering Steven has never been to a doctor prior to "Growing Pains", it is questionable whether Steven has any valid proof of identification despite knowing a driver's license is required to drive the Dondai.
Steven has sung the most songs in the entire franchise, with a grand total of 38.

Appearance
Pearl has a slender, thin build, ivory skin, light cyan eyes, a pointed nose, and thin lips. She is quite a tall Gem, towering over Amethyst, Ruby, Sapphire, Peridot, and Steven alike. She is nearly equal in height (with hair) to Garnet's chin. Her complexion is ivory and her hair has a light peach color (looking light pink in some scenes) and resembles a pixie-cut in the front, while in the back, her hair leads to a point. Pearl is usually drawn without eyelashes or pupils, although they have been seen in some close-ups. Pearl's gemstone is located in the middle of her forehead and has no facets.
First Form
In "A Single Pale Rose" and "Now We're Only Falling Apart", which flashback to the time she served Pink Diamond, Pearl wears a dress resembling Pink Diamond's. The top half has puffy blue shoulders, an amber-colored top with a V neck, a diamond-shaped cutout at the bottom, and a light yellow trim along the bottom. The bottom half has a pink skirt with transparent drapes over it and pale blue ballet flats. Her hairstyle is a mix between its style during the Rebellion and its style in the 80s. This form also appears when Pearl regenerates in Steven Universe: The Movie.
1980s-90s Regeneration
In "Story for Steven", "We Need to Talk", "Greg the Babysitter", and "A Single Pale Rose", episodes that flashback to around the 1980s, along with Lapis Lazuli's flashback in "Same Old World" Pearl wore a cropped ruffle mesh capelet with a draped sleeveless and shoulderless heart-shaped aqua top, short lavender leggings, salmon pink leg warmers, and pale blue ballet flats. Her hair was also a little longer, somewhat resembling a bob.
Pre-Regeneration (Debut)
From "Gem Glow" to "Steven the Sword Fighter", Pearl wore a sleeveless, sky blue top that had a yellow star, and a translucent chest and transferred into a transparent silk ballet skirt around her waist. She also wore short salmon pink-colored leggings, light-green socks, and slip-on ballet flats to match. This form was also seen in the flashback of "Three Gems and a Baby".
Post-Regeneration (Previous)
From "Steven the Sword Fighter" to "Together Alone", Pearl wore an aqua blue tunic with a small yellow star on the center of her chest and a lighter satin sash ribbon around her upper waist. Her leggings are amber-colored. She also wore pink socks with pale blue slip-on ballet flats.
Current Regeneration
After regenerating in "Change Your Mind", Pearl now wears a poofy, cropped, short-sleeve cyan blazer with a pink inner lining and a yellow star on the back over a light teal top, cadet blue leggings (appearing as capri jeans), and light pink slip-on ballet flats.
Other
In "The Answer", "Your Mother and Mine", and "Now We're Only Falling Apart", which flashback to the Rebellion, Pearl wears a translucent top (with the top-half pink and the bottom-half teal), short pink leggings, and orange boots. Her hair resembles what it looks like currently, except longer.

Personality
Pearl is a perfectionist who is knowledgeable on a plethora of topics that value organization. Pearl has a penchant for symmetry (going so far as to impale M.C. Bear Bear to maintain the symmetry of a pile of appliances and school supplies) and very high attention to detail.
Despite her perfectionism and occasional bragging, Pearl suffers from low self-esteem. In "Friend Ship", she admits she is very dependent on others to validate her, which loops into a strong inferiority complex. According to Amethyst in "Reformed", she needs everyone's constant approval to feel secure. Without anyone to tell her what to do or to depend on her, Pearl feels lost without meaning or value. Pearl admits she often feels extremely weak and/or useless when compared to others who appear better than her, going so far as to describe herself as ineffective on her own; always in need of a leader she can follow, thinking she has very little power to affect others, partly because her low self-esteem leads her to believe she lacks the relevance to be influential. Her self-deprecating tendencies stem from the Homeworld caste values, where Pearls are viewed as property rather than Gems. This has led her to take drastic actions to prove herself — though, thanks to Garnet's encouragement in "Friend Ship", she has started to take initiatives instead of letting other's words define Pearl herself. It appears Pearl has taken this to her heart, as she asserted herself against Peridot when she treated Pearl in a degrading tone. Pearl even goes as far as physically punching Peridot to show that she is an individual, not a piece of property. In the past, her low self-esteem is explained in detail by Garnet that she was willing to risk her life to protect Rose to prove her worth, which goes as far as nearly making Connie into an exact low-esteem replica of her during sword training if not for Steven's intervention.
Pearl is easily flustered and overwhelmed when confronted by the unknown or when her plans fail, which can lead to her judgment being clouded or cause her to act on impulse instead of rational thinking. Her inner turmoil over her love for Rose (and her subsequent absence) has made Pearl lash out at Steven and the Crystal Gems more than once. At times, Pearl does not realize when she is being selfish because she thinks she is always doing everything for others. Her fierce desire to feel "strong" and have more victories as a Crystal Gem even caused her to betray Garnet's trust and basic principles so they could keep forming Sardonyx. When realizing how much she hurt others, Pearl will apologize and try as hard as she can to set things right, working hard to counteract the damage she may have inflicted.
Out of all the Crystal Gems, Pearl is the most poorly adjusted to life on Earth, being unaware of human social conventions and culture, such as jokes, games, arcades, food, and birthday parties. Pearl has expressed a great desire to leave Earth in "Space Race", going so far as to risk her and Steven's lives. Pearl also has a pessimistic view of humanity, as evidenced by her statement in "Keep Beach City Weird". Though, in "Political Power", she claimed to have been around during the millennium when humans lived without any light and were aware that they used to hunt and gather. She appeared quite surprised that they did not do that anymore. In "Last One Out of Beach City", Pearl takes her turn at trying to build a normal, human social life in the hopes of impressing Steven and Amethyst, voluntarily joining them in going to a show, and drinking beverages. By the end, Pearl even approached the mysterious girl that had appeared repeatedly throughout the episode, whom Pearl seemed infatuated with.
“Humans just live short, boring, insignificant lives, so they make up stories to feel like they're a part of something bigger. They want to blame all the world's problems on some single enemy they can fight, instead of a complex network of interrelated forces beyond anyone's control.”
—"Keep Beach City Weird"
Despite her pessimistic perspective of humans, Pearl is extremely dedicated to her cause in protecting humanity more or less out of her love, loyalty, and admiration for Rose Quartz. She does, however, find certain aspects of Earth rather amazing. Regardless of her poor understanding of human society, she can pay for the Cookie Cats Amethyst and Garnet steal in "Gem Glow", drive Greg's Van in "Ocean Gem", and repair it in "House Guest". She also watches the New Year's Eve fireworks show in "Maximum Capacity".
In "Back to the Barn", it is revealed that pearls are not created for fighting, but for following orders. However, Pearl trained to fight with Rose. Peridot also describes pearls as accessories that are meant to be put on display as status symbols and to perform menial tasks, although Pearl's appearance fits this standard.
Aside from her pessimism and perfectionism, Pearl is usually polite and reserved to others; she keeps everything set orderly and tidy. Her obsessive attention to tidiness is explained in "Back to the Barn" when it is revealed that pearls are made-to-order servants and are created to "hold stuff" for their masters.
Her body language tends to accentuate her movements like a ballerina, using the tip of her feet. Pearl tends to keep her legs straight, though she often crosses her feet. Her fighting style also displays several leaps and pirouettes, all further emphasized by her ballerina-like outfit.
Steven Universe: The Movie shows Pearl more laid back and confident, as when Greg says she's the boss she agrees, showing that she's accepted she's her Gem. When reformed after being hit by the rejuvenator she returns to being servile to Greg, whom she imprints on.
"Volleyball" shows how far Pearl has come. Having overcome most of her problems and almost moved completely past her relationship with Rose/Pink, Pearl shows a strong and confident attitude with a dry sarcastic sense of humor, remarking snidely how Pink Pearl still had an infatuation with Pink Diamond and scoffing at the items for Pearls in The Reef. "Snow Day" shows how far she's moved past her trauma over Rose/Pink when she shapeshifts into 14-year old Steven for Steven Tag.

Pearl was made for and delivered to Pink Diamond[1] as a replacement for Pink Pearl approximately eight thousand years before the events of the series, her creation having taken place in the Reef. Pearl was tasked with making her Diamond happy, though she didn't manage to do so for a long while. She was also more serious and strict compared to her original counterpart, so she could instruct Pink on how to properly run her first colony. Through her time with her, Pearl visited many other planets, and grew fond of space.
Like the other Diamond's Pearls, she carried a very strong and loyal bond to Pink Diamond. One day, early on in the colonization of Earth, Pink Diamond wished she could frolic and play alongside the Quartz soldiers that were emerging from the planet's surface, but didn't want to be reprimanded by the other Diamonds. Taking Pink's question about imagining the possibility of warping down to Earth seriously, Pearl thought that Pink Diamond could avoid getting caught if she shapeshifted into a Quartz soldier to blend in for a day.
Though Pearl thought just imagining this would be enough to make her Diamond happy, Pink thought the idea was worth actually putting into consideration. After warping to the Kindergarten, Pink had some fun socializing with the Amethysts, though Pearl thought their manners were lacking. Pearl advised that Pink would be better off not drawing attention to herself, and suggested exploring the Earth's other features.[2]
After observing the life that already lived there and becoming attached to it, Pink realized that if the colony was completed, all of it would be destroyed. Pearl apologized for her idea making her Diamond feel this way, but Pink told her this daytrip was exactly what she needed and wanted. Pearl stood alongside the other Diamond's Pearls, witnessing Pink Diamond's attempts to put a stop to the colonization, though they amounted to little more than a zoo for human specimens.
After Blue and Yellow Diamond dismissed her desires to halt the colonization, Pink assumed the identity of a Quartz soldier to start a rebellion as someone they couldn't ignore. Pink Diamond kept a secret with Pearl of her double life as Rose Quartz, who made Pearl one of the first Crystal Gems approximately 5,750 years ago. Before the war began, Rose told Pearl that if they had lost, they would be shattered, and if they won, they could never go home, something Pearl accepted because she loved Rose and wanted to be with her wherever she went. Once the Rebellion began, Pearl fought alongside Rose and did whatever she could to protect her. During her time on Earth, Pearl learned how to sword-fight, and the human concept of being a knight, "completely dedicated to a person and a cause" at the Ancient Sky Arena, while also harboring growing romantic feelings for Rose.
At the start of the war, Rose and Pearl were the only two Gems that defected against Homeworld. In order to stop the rebel group from growing, Blue Diamond and her court arrived on Earth to end the Rebellion. Rose and Pearl both arrived at the scene and fought against Blue Diamond's soldiers, including Ruby. Pearl was about to strike at Sapphire, but she was saved by Ruby, causing Garnet to form for the first time. Pearl didn't hesitate to attack Garnet, but she was stopped by Rose, who took the opportunity of Blue Diamond's court being distracted by Garnet to escape.
While reflecting on this incident, Rose wondered if all Gems could do that. Pearl tried to satisfy Rose's curiosity by attempting to fuse with her, though she could not at first. She apologized profusely for taking such bold initiative and imagining an Earth where she could make Rose happy despite never having been her Pearl. She begged Rose to order her to stop, but Rose requested that she do the opposite. This tender moment caused them to briefly fuse into Rainbow Quartz for the first time. Shortly afterwards, Rose and Pearl come across Garnet again, and Pearl draws her sword at first. However, Pearl comes to accept Garnet for who she is, and with Rose's help, she joins their rebellion, as did many others. Pearl grew a close relationship with her fellow comrade, Bismuth. According to Bismuth, she and Pearl went onto a Nephrite's drop ship, and Pearl threw her out of the cockpit.
During the war, Pearl served as Rose's confidant, and was privy to many (but not all) secrets others weren't, like the armory. The Crystal Gems fought long and hard, though it became apparent that it wasn't enough to scare off Homeworld. Because of Blue and Yellow Diamond's continued refusal to listen to Pink Diamond, and wanting to live on the planet as Rose Quartz, Pink plotted to fake her own shattering: Pink Diamond created gem shards that she swallowed and had Pearl shapeshift into Rose Quartz and poof Pink Diamond with Rose's Sword. The shards would be left behind, while Pearl quickly grabbed the real gem while she was obscured by the ensuing smoke.
Before this happened, as a last order from her Diamond, Pearl was told never to tell anyone of what really happened. Their ruse tricked the Diamonds, but it came at a terrible price. After Homeworld called a retreat, the Diamonds unleashed the Corrupting Light on the surface of the planet. Rose managed to use her shield to protect Pearl and Garnet, but every other Gem on Earth that wasn't shattered became corrupted. Devastated by the near total loss of her dear friends, Pearl privately wondered if the plan was ultimately worth it.
After the Rebellion, Pearl continued to protect the Earth alongside Garnet and Rose. Eventually, Pearl and the remaining Crystal Gems lived at the Crystal Temple in Beach City, where they protect humanity and contain Corrupted Gems. Pearl also eventually met Amethyst at the Prime Kindergarten and grew a strong relationship with her, even fusing with her numerous times into Opal.
One day, Pearl and Garnet met Buddy Buddwick at the Gem Battlefield and warned him of visiting dangerous Gem locations. She drew up a map for him of places not to visit.
Hundreds of years later, Rose ends up meeting and falling in love with Greg Universe, a human musician. Pearl meets Greg and is jealous of his relationship with Rose, considering Pearl's extremely close relationship with Rose lasting millennia.
Eventually, Rose dies while giving birth to a son, Steven, half-Gem and half-human. Pearl has a lot of trouble accepting the fact that Rose had 'turned into' Steven, but overtime becomes more accepting of her actions. Pearl, along with Garnet and Amethyst, help raised Steven and teach him about his heritage and history.

Trivia
In the transition from the pilot to the series, Pearl underwent the most drastic change of the three Gems, to the point where she is almost unrecognizable to seasoned viewers seeing the pilot for the first time. Among these changes are:
Removal of a bronze (moss green in the intro) ring around her gemstone.
Removal of earrings (and visible ears altogether).
Skin color changed (from blue to white).
Pointier nose.
Rounder face.
Slimmer, more cartoonish build.
Drastically different outfit.
A different hairstyle, covering ears and pointing backward instead of forwards.
Rose-pink hair color to light peach.
Eye color changed (black to a light blue).
Removal of hearts on slippers and slipper color changed (dark blue to light blue).
Higher-pitched voice.
Different personalities (in the pilot, she enjoyed and readily joined Amethyst in heckling Steven).
According to the dialog in "Volleyball", Pearl is approximately 8,000 years old.
Her pilot design bears a striking resemblance to the singer Eleanor Jackson from the English synthpop act La Roux.
Despite being called a spear, based on the shape of the blade and the slashing action Pearl employs in combat, Pearl's 'spear' is technically a glaive.
In "Back to the Barn", it is confirmed that there are multiple Pearls on Homeworld. It is also confirmed that the Pearls on Homeworld are considered inferior and, as Peridot put it, "made-to-order servants".
In "Together Breakfast", it is revealed that Pearl owns a wide collection of swords.
The Gems' fighting styles are based on dance styles. Pearl's fighting/dancing style is ballet.[3]
In "Fusion Cuisine", Pearl states that she hates eating. She has stated that the digestive process is what disgusts her the most.
Pearl agrees to consume human food, expresses interest in eating, or admits to a preference for certain foods in "Together Breakfast", "Bubble Buddies", "Serious Steven" and "So Many Birthdays". These episodes all take place before "Steven the Sword Fighter". This could mean that Pearl used to like human food.
In a Twitter response to a fan, Matt Burnett explained that Pearl likes the process of pie, i.e., baking, rather than the consumption of it.[4]
However, she is shown to enjoy tea, as shown when she brings a teapot to Funland in "Serious Steven", and when she talks about finding out Connie's favorite tea in "Bubble Buddies".
In "Last One Out of Beach City", Pearl is disgusted by drinking apple juice, a similar occurrence to when she unfused from Alexandrite in "Fusion Cuisine" (though this is at least partly due to her surprise at seeing the Mystery Girl as well).
Pearl's disgust for eating might be from watching Pink Diamond eat the gem shards she created to fake her shattering. Pearl looked disgusted before Pink Diamond ate them.
Pearl's ability to store things in her gemstone may be unique for pearls since Peridot did say in "Back to the Barn" that pearls hold "stuff" for the leader assigned to them, more likely for easier accessibility.
However, Garnet can summon the Pyramid Temple Key in "Serious Steven", which may indicate that, though Pearls were made to hold items, most if not all Gems are capable of doing so.
In "Steven and the Stevens", she is seen playing the violin.
It is seen in "Monster Buddies" that Steven keeps a framed picture of Pearl on the side of their fridge. It is later destroyed by the Centipeetle Mother. In "When It Rains", it is revealed that it has been replaced by a new picture of her in her post-regeneration outfit.
Pearl appears to have her face on several coin-types.[5]
When Pearl blushes, it's light-blue.
Pearl is the first Gem shown to be able to harness the energy within their weapon for an attack in "Watermelon Steven".
In "Lion 3: Straight to Video", Pearl admits that she often watches Steven sleep.
Though stating during the same episode that Steven no longer wishes her to watch him sleep, she is observed intently watching him sleep when he wakes up from his first dream during "Chille Tid".
It is confirmed by Steven in "Steven the Sword Fighter" that organizing messes is one of Pearl's favorite hobbies.
It is revealed in "Reformed" that Pearl was always bothered by Amethyst's crooked shoulder strap.
Pearl is ambidextrous, shown in "Ocean Gem" where she can wield two spears at the same time.
Rebecca Sugar stated in a 2015 interview that the Crystal Gem Steven knows the least about at this point is Pearl.[6]
In "Sworn to the Sword", Pearl says she was only a few thousand years old when she began fighting alongside Rose Quartz.
It was Earth where Pearl learned of sword fighting.
In a flashback, it appears that Pearl engaged a Gem (similar to Jasper) multiple times for Rose Quartz.
All of Pearl's fusions have been dubbed "Giant Woman" or something similar by Steven except Rainbow Quartz.
All of Pearl's fusions except Rainbow Quartz and Rainbow Quartz 2.0 share Pearl's large, sharp nose.
Pearl's reason for protecting Earth is to carry on Rose's fight.
Her lines from the extended opening are "I will fight in the name of Rose Quartz! And everything that she believed in!"
Pearl finds life jackets very lame, puny, and unnecessary, as shown in "Chille Tid" as they are used to prevent drowning which opposes to pearls being formed underwater.
Her dancing is similar to how Princess Tutu dances from Princess Tutu.
Rebecca Sugar has stated Pearl represents the group-dependency stage in the human emotional development spectrum.[7]
When asked what songs would be on the Crystal Gems' playlists, Rebecca Sugar listed Sunmi's "24 Hours" and William Bolcom's "Graceful Ghost Rag".[8]
In "Back to the Barn", it is stated that pearls are used as servants on Homeworld who can be "owned".
In "Too Far", Peridot has stated that Pearl is prone to spontaneously singing and crying. This is a tongue-in-cheek reference to how many characters cry and sing on Steven Universe.
Aside from Steven, Pearl is the most prone to crying and singing.
During the early days of the Rebellion, Garnet considered Pearl "terrifying".[9]
In "Message Received", when Pearl is asked by Steven who Yellow Pearl is, she is offended and states that not all Pearls know each other.
It is revealed in "Now We're Only Falling Apart", however, that she has met both Yellow and Blue Pearl. She likely deflected the question at the time to avoid revealing secrets regarding her past.
Pearl replaces her usual star symbol with a pink diamond on her spacesuit, as seen in "Space Race" and "Back to the Barn".
According to Aivi Tran and Surasshu, "Pearl's piano is often written in minor, with blocked chords and gentle jazz influences", as well as an expanded palette of "harp and some pads".[10]
Excluding Obsidian and Mega Pearl, all fusions involving Pearl are in some way multi-colored, thus named after multi-colored gemstones.
Opal - Color play via diffraction.
Rainbow Quartz - Metal coating.
Sardonyx - Multi-colored bands of various colors.
Alexandrite - Color change due to exposure to different forms of light.
This is likely due to Pearl being implied to have been created with "gemetic material" from White, Yellow, Blue, and potentially Pink Diamond together.
In "Know Your Fusion", an illustration of Pearl is seen on a "test your strength" device. As the only non-fusion on this device, Pearl is the weakest one shown, being weaker than Stevonnie, Garnet, Opal, and Sugilite.
In "Last One Out of Beach City", Pearl admits that she does not have a license or legal citizenship in the country, fully aware of the absurdity of registering for either, having lived before such systems were installed and being unable to confess she is from space.
Pearl's clothes in "Last One Out of Beach City" resemble Jesse Zuke's Bad Pearl drawing.
Pearl was implied to be famous during the Rebellion, considering both Garnet and Hessonite labelled her as "The terrifying renegade Pearl."
It has been confirmed in "A Single Pale Rose" that Pearl was formerly a subordinate of Pink Diamond. Before this, other hinted moments include:
In "Space Race", her spacesuit bore what appears to be the insignia of Pink Diamond.
Sardonyx, the fusion of Pearl and Garnet, has pink diamonds on her shoes.
In "Bubbled", Garnet mentioned one of the reasons for Rose Quartz shattering Pink Diamond was so Pearl could be free.
However, she also listed herself being "together" as a reason even though her components served Blue Diamond.
Deedee Magno Hall thinks Pearl would shapeshift into a graceful bird (like a ladybird, a dove, or a swan) if she was interested in changing form; McKenzie Atwood thinks it would be a flamingo.[11]
In the podcast, Pearl reveals that she was the one who pulled Excálibur out of the stone, and since then she has it in her collection.
Both Ian Jones-Quartey and Rebecca Sugar made Pearl an anti-hero as a way to make her relatable - Pearl displays some of the vices characteristic of an anti-hero, such as selfishness, that viewers can easily relate to and understand.
Pearl is the second Gem to own a phone, the other being Steven.
It is heavily implied that Amethyst also owns a phone or has owned one in the past. She knows how to use one and also has a few phone cases in her room.
In "A Single Pale Rose", Pearl is shown to have a handful of cellphone numbers stored within her gem, aside from the one she acquired from Mystery Girl.
In "Three Gems and a Baby", it was revealed that Pearl threw a jungle gym at Steven's babysitter because she thought she was kidnapping him.
Joe Johnston confirmed that Pearl was specifically made for Pink Diamond.[12]
Pearls are thought to give wisdom through experience, to quicken the laws of karma, and to cement engagements and love relationships. They are thought to keep children safe.
Many of Pearl's outfits have elements that resemble different variations of a Filipiniana which is a nod to Pearls being the national gem of the Philippines as well as her voice actress's cultural background.
It is implied in Steven Universe The Movie that the reason why Pearl is multicolored (instead of being single-colored like the other Pearls) is that she had default settings instead of having specific customizations.
Pearl is the last character to speak in the Steven Universe franchise.

Pearl's gemstone is located in the center of her forehead. As seen in "Steven the Sword Fighter", the front and back are symmetrical, and it has a light blue ring around it, which is usually hidden inside her body unless she is regenerating. It is a smooth ellipsoidal cabochon in the shape of an oval.

Steven's gemstone is located on his navel. It is a circular gemstone with a pentagonal facet.

Appearance
Sapphire is a slender Gem and she is slightly taller than Ruby. She has blue skin, prominent lips, a large eye with blue iris and pupil upon her forehead, and pale blue; wavy hair with bangs that cover the top half of her face. Her facial structure resembles Garnet's. Her gemstone is in the palm of her right hand.
First-form
In "The Answer" which flashes back to the Rebellion when she was part of Blue Diamond's court, Sapphire's dress has a white top with the Blue Diamond insignia and a navy blue vest with a frilly bottom. Although her feet are not visible, she is implied to have been barefoot (based on imagery seen in "Isn't It Love?" and Garnet's first form lacking a shoe on one foot). This form reappears in Steven Universe: The Movie when The Crystal Gems are reset to their first forms from the Gem Rejuvenator.
Previous Regeneration
Before her regeneration in "Jail Break", Sapphire's dress had navy blue sleeves and a dark blue vest without a pinafore.
Debut
Sapphire wore a floor-length gown with white, rounded, puffy sleeves, a navy top with a blue pinafore, and a blue skirt with several frilly layers in several blue shades resembling an open geode. She also wore white elbow-length evening gloves. Her feet are usually hidden by her dress, on which she wore blue shoes in "Gem Heist".
Current
After her regeneration in "Change Your Mind", Sapphire continues to wear a floor-length gown, but she now has white, pointer, puffy sleeves, as well as a white top with a long, light blue vest with navy trimmings. She also continues to wear her white elbow-length gloves.
Other Outfits
In "Reunited ", Sapphire forewent her dress to wear a black tuxedo with a pink rose in her upper pocket during her wedding to Ruby, and her hair was tied back with a blue ribbon.

Personality
Sapphire is seen to be very compassionate, level-headed, serene and patient. She balances out Ruby's much more impulsive personality when they are fused as Garnet. She is quick-thinking; able to come up with quick solutions such as Steven's immunity to the energy field almost immediately and comes with a plan on the spot to enter Pink Diamond's Zoo undetected in "Gem Heist".
Because of her precognitive abilities which allow her to have experienced the resolution of an event prior to it happening, Sapphire can come off as cold and distant. This is shown in "Keystone Motel", wherein which she feels the best option is to face problems by acting as though they have already been resolved. Because of this, she has trouble expressing her emotions in the present, heavily contrasting with her partner Ruby, who has a difficult time concealing her emotions. Her blasé attitude to the present can make her appear somewhat passive-aggressive. Despite this, Sapphire is shown to be more outgoing between Ruby and herself, willing to start a conversation with one of her Ruby escorts about her thoughts on the Earth. In "Hit the Diamond", she is shown to be rather amorous and flirty with Ruby, to the point of detriment to her team.
In the same episode, Sapphire is shown to have a more violent side to her. When the leader of the Homeworld Rubies threw a flaming fastball, she managed to hit a home-run by encasing the bat in ice, all the while screaming with determination. When under a lot of stress, Sapphire is seemingly unable to control her powers, leading to her both figuratively and literally freezing up as ice begins to encase her in "The Answer" and "That Will Be All". "Now We're Only Falling Apart" goes further in-depth with this when her stress over Rose Quartz being Pink Diamond causes her to freeze and make snow the entirety of Rose's Fountain and the surrounding terrain. She forgoes her usual calm demeanor, greatly expressing her rage over Rose's deception and leaving to her Fountain in order to reflect on the matter. However, Sapphire isn't above reason even when under emotional disquietude, listening to Pearl's story on why Pink Diamond became Rose Quartz and started the rebellion. After she calms down, she realizes that she must apologize to Ruby right away, showing her concern for Ruby which turns in deep desolation at the loss of her partner in "What's Your Problem?", having learned Ruby has run away and worries she will never return.
In Steven Universe Future Sapphire has let go of her belief in that only one future exists, even when unfused from Ruby, who allows them to see multiple futures as Garnet. Further backing this up, is that Sapphire teaches other Gems the possibility of anything happening in the future.

History
Pre-Series
Over 5,750 years ago, Sapphire lived on Homeworld, being an aristocratic Gem who formed part of Blue Diamond's court. Sapphire later was part of the diplomatic team sent to stop Rose Quartz's Rebellion on Earth, along with 3 Rubies assigned to guard her. Sapphire saw a future where the rebels, Rose Quartz and Pearl, were indeed caught and stopped, but seven Gems, including herself, were going to be poofed in the process. Just as she finished reporting her premonition to Blue Diamond, the rebels attacked as Sapphire had predicted, and destroyed the physical forms of six Gems, including two of her Ruby guards.
Before Sapphire was struck down, her remaining Ruby jumped forward and pushed her out of the way of Pearl's sword. They accidentally fused and formed Garnet for the first time. This first-ever fusion of two different Gems caused an uproar among the other Gems, during which Rose and Pearl escaped. However, Blue Diamond wasn't pleased and declared that Ruby shall be shattered for fusing with a member of her court and changing Sapphire's prophecy. However, Sapphire grabbed Ruby by the hand and ran off the edge of the Cloud Arena, floating down to Earth below. Sapphire was "frozen" because her future vision was wrong for the first time due to Ruby's impulsive nature. They found shelter in a cave, where Sapphire revealed her eye to Ruby and the two talked about their feelings when they were Garnet.
Ruby and Sapphire grew closer and eventually decided to fuse again. Garnet was found by Pearl and Rose shortly after forming. Upon being met with acceptance and not revulsion, she began to bombard Rose with questions about the events and circumstances that allowed her to become Garnet, as well as her own feelings about existing as a fusion. Rose told her to "never question this," and said that she was already the answer to all her questions—love. This would be the beginning of Sapphire's existence as part of Garnet for the next thousand years, fighting Homeworld with the Crystal Gems to protect Earth. At some point, she and Ruby chose to fuse permanently.
"Three Gems and a Baby"
Soon after Steven is born, Garnet de-fuses to show Steven, who she believes is a kind of fusion, how to unfuse, but Ruby and Sapphire re-fuse once baby Steven begins to cry due to missing Garnet.
"The Return"
Garnet is poofed by Jasper and as a result Ruby and Sapphire reform separately after being kept as prisoners on the Gem Warship with the other Gems.
"Jail Break"
Sapphire sings in her cell in order to signal to Steven and Ruby. After Steven finds and frees Sapphire, she and Ruby reunite in the center of the ship. They make sure they are both okay before fusing once more into Garnet.
"Keeping It Together"
Ruby and Sapphire converse while they are Garnet after they see the Cluster Gems. Ruby becomes enraged and Sapphire tries to calm her down. Garnet almost unfuses, but Ruby and Sapphire find peace once again.
"Keystone Motel"
Garnet unfuses because Ruby and Sapphire have a conflict over Pearl's deception in "Cry for Help". Ruby believes that Pearl tricking Garnet into forming Sardonyx is an unforgivable act, while Sapphire is more open to Pearl redeeming herself. After Ruby storms out of the motel room, Sapphire sits quietly on a bed, expecting Ruby to calm down and see that Sapphire is right. The next day, at The Best Diner in the World, Sapphire says that Ruby will burn herself out eventually, causing Ruby to summon her gauntlet and smash the table onto its side. Steven leaves the diner, upset, and Ruby and Sapphire follow him out to see what is wrong. After realizing the effect of their conflict has on Steven, they make up and re-fuse into Garnet.
"Hit the Diamond"
A Ruby squadron arrives at the Barn, leading Garnet to unfuse so Ruby can get them to leave. Ruby fails at this, but Steven convinces the Rubies that they can't search the barn until they win at baseball against a team of humans, and they have to leave if they lose. Sapphire, Amethyst, Pearl, and Lapis Lazuli all pretend to be humans and play on Steven's team. At the end of the game, Ruby encourages Sapphire until she finally hits the ball and wins the game for the humans. Out of pure joy and pride, Sapphire jumps into Ruby's arms and the two accidentally form Garnet, blowing the Crystal Gems' cover.
"Mindful Education"
When Garnet is teaching Stevonnie how to stay fused under stress, Ruby is shown to get frustrated, but then have Sapphire comfort her, teaching Steven and Connie that they have to work together to stay together.
"Gem Heist"
Garnet unfuses and Sapphire devises a plan to sneak into Pink Diamond's Zoo undetected. The Crystal Gems pretend to be Homeworld Gems delivering Steven as another human for the zoo. Sapphire asks Holly Blue Agate to take her, Ruby, and Pearl on a tour of the zoo, hoping to find a door to the enclosure through which Greg Universe can escape. Holly Blue shows them one, and Ruby and Sapphire distract Holly Blue by telling her that their ship's engine is in danger of exploding. Sapphire leaves with Holly Blue to give the other Crystal Gems time to figure out how to open the door. They fail to open it, however, and Steven is sent into the enclosure alone.
"That Will Be All"
Sapphire continues traveling with Ruby, Pearl, and Holly Blue. Inside the Rose Quartz Bubble Room, Sapphire begins to freeze up in front of Blue Diamond when pressured to explain why she delivered Steven to the zoo, but Ruby holds Sapphire's hand to comfort her, and Sapphire is able to maintain their facade. Once Sapphire, Ruby, and Pearl are reunited with Amethyst, Steven, and Greg, they try to sneak back to their ship while hiding Steven and Greg from Holly Blue. However, Holly Blue realizes what's going on and attacks the Crystal Gems, and Ruby and Sapphire fuse once more to protect the others.
"Now We're Only Falling Apart"
Following the revelation that Rose Quartz was actually Pink Diamond, Garnet destabilizes and unfuses, with Ruby sad and attempting to comfort the furious, betrayed Sapphire, who takes the lie personally. Sapphire yells at Ruby, taking out her stress on her, and questions their relationship. Sapphire warps to Rose's Fountain, leaving Ruby in tears as Pearl and Steven go after her. At Rose's Fountain, Sapphire felt useless and ignorant for not being able to see this via her future vision. Because of her hatred for the diamonds, she assumes Pink was only using the rebels as pawns. Pearl tells Sapphire and Steven the story of Pink Diamond's and Pearl's past. In the end, Sapphire returns to the house with Pearl and Steven, understanding that they didn't follow Rose; Rose followed them. However, once they warp back, Sapphire becomes shocked to find nobody in the now dark, vacant house, and a letter from Ruby.
"What's Your Problem?"
After Steven, Pearl, and Sapphire return from Rose's fountain, Sapphire finds a letter from Ruby explaining that she is leaving. Steven, Pearl and Sapphire ask Amethyst if she knows where Ruby went, but she has not seen her since supplying the pen and paper to write the note. Sapphire breaks down in guilt while Pearl attempts to console her.
"The Question"
When Steven returns to the Beach House, he finds Sapphire being comforted by Pearl, and tells her Ruby is outside waiting to tell her something. Sapphire goes out and greets her, apologizing for her earlier behavior. To Sapphire's surprise, Ruby gets down on one knee and asks her to marry her so that they can be together even when they are not fused as Garnet. Sapphire happily accepts the proposal.
"Made of Honor"
Ruby and Sapphire organize their wedding, practicing where and how it's going to be carried out, inviting many of the citizens of Beach City and the Gems. Sapphire mentions that she would like to have been able to invite old members of the Crystal Gems, who are now either shattered or corrupted and bubbled. That drives Steven to free Bismuth, who reunites with her fellow Gems and makes two rings for the couple (a copper one for Ruby and a tin one for Sapphire[1]).
"Reunited"
Before the wedding begins, Sapphire agrees to not cheat on seeing Ruby's wedding dress. After the two say their vows, they exchange the rings Bismuth had made for them, and Steven pronounces them as Garnet. They begin to kiss, fusing again.
"Together Alone"
Sapphire is forced to defuse from Ruby in order to attend the Era-3 Ball. She appears alongside other Sapphires approaching Steven. She later fuses back with Ruby into Garnet after Steven and Connie fused, but is poofed by Yellow Diamond almost immediately afterward.
"Change Your Mind"
Her gemstone was released by Steven from Yellow Diamond's bubble in her bubble chamber. She was later accidentally dropped into Homeworld's surface by Steven and picked back up by Rainbow Quartz 2.0 and fused for the first time with Steven and Ruby's gemstone to form Sunstone.
Steven Universe: The Movie
She has a rather minor appearance. She gets brought back in "System/BOOT.pearl final(3).Info" and after introducing herself to Ruby, they go offscreen. A few minutes later, Steven tries to cause a disaster, but Sapphire says he won't, and he doesn't. Instead, Spinel accidentally causes a disaster in which an anvil almost falls on Ruby; but Sapphire pushes her away, and they fuse. Sapphire is not seen after that.
"Snow Day"
She and Ruby unfuse for a short period of time to persuade Steven to play Steven Tag and regain his childlike spirit. She beats Steven in Steven Tag with the use of her future vision and then fuses back into Garnet in the form of 14 year old Steven.
"Together Forever"
Sapphire appears, giving advice to Steven on marrying Connie.
"I Am My Monster"
Sapphire, along with Ruby, appear briefly, crying over Steven's transformation.

Abilities
Sapphire possesses standard Gem abilities, including regeneration, fusion, as well as presumably bubbling and shapeshifting. However, it is possible she doesn't have a weapon of her own as when a fusion first summons their weapon, they start with the weapons of their separate parts, and none of Sapphire's fusions (even Obsidian, who showed Ruby's gauntlet) showed Sapphire's weapon.
Fusions
When fused with Ruby, they form Garnet.
When fused with Ruby and Amethyst, they form Sugilite.
When fused with Ruby and Pearl, they form Sardonyx.
When fused with Ruby and Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Sunstone.
When fused with Ruby, Pearl, and Amethyst, they form Alexandrite.
When fused with Ruby, Pearl, Amethyst, and Rose Quartz, they form Obsidian.
When fused with Ruby, Pearl, Amethyst, and Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Obsidian.
Unique Abilities
Future Vision: Sapphire can see the future to some extent. According to Garnet, this ability is rare among Gems, enough so to place Sapphire in Blue Diamond's court. This power is hinted when she was able to find Ruby in a matter of seconds in "Jail Break", then confirmed in "Keystone Motel". "What's Your Problem?" hints that like Garnet, Sapphire mainly relies on probability to see the future, doubting that she would be able to predict the course of action of someone she couldn't be completely objective about someone as spontaneous as Ruby. She also doubts some predictions due to how unlikely seemed to her, despite she succeeded in "The Question."
Singular Futures: Unlike Garnet, who can see multiple futures due to Ruby's impulsive influence and intervene in the change of the future, Sapphire could only see one definitive future where she doesn't intervene, probably for her passive personality.[2] [3] According to Rebecca Sugar in an interview, Garnet can see multiple futures, while Sapphire is only able to see one single main time stream. However, it is revealed in "Hit the Diamond" and "That Will Be All", Sapphire has acquired the ability to see multiple futures.
Cryokinesis: Sapphire can drastically lower the temperature of her surroundings, which is rather linked to her emotions rather than a conscious ability. This includes forming ice on the walls or freezing water in "Keystone Hotel". Offensively, Sapphire can freeze objects into solid ice and quickly summon ice spikes from the ground, as respectively seen in "Hit the Diamond" when she froze a baseball bat and "Now We're Only Falling Apart". Her power can make an area snow, making it snow all over Rose's Fountain. This ability contrasts to Ruby's ability to raise the temperature. When fused as Garnet, Sapphire's cryokinesis fuses with Ruby's pyrokinesis and forms Garnet's electrokinesis, as thunderstorms can result from the formation of masses of cold and warm air.
Levitation: Sapphire can hover in the air at will. This ability was shown in "Keystone Motel" when she hovers onto the bed and when she can land herself with Ruby gently onto the ground in "The Answer".
Enhanced Speed: Sapphire has proven to be able to travel great distances in a short time, possibly due to floating and not walking on legs. This ability isn't yet seen in any other Gem other than Diamonds.

Trivia
According to an interview with Rebecca Sugar, Sapphire did not always have one eye in her pre-show development.[7]
Sapphire's dress resembles a dirndl, a traditional women's outfit from Bavaria, Germany.
Garnet's three eyes are a combination of one of Ruby's two eyes and Sapphire's one eye, with the third being mixed between the colors of both of their eyes.
As seen in "Hit the Diamond", Sapphire has two legs like all singular Gems. This fact was disputed among fans prior to the episode, due to the long skirt of her standard outfit and her predilection for levitation.
Before "Hit the Diamond", Sapphire was drawn with legs in artwork by Rebecca Sugar[8] and Hilary Florido.[9]
Neither Sapphire nor Ruby has a star or a diamond on their outfits. However, when fused with Ruby, Garnet has a star on her chest.
Sapphire's instrument has been confirmed to be "a gentle synth pad."[10] In addition, her instrument was reverse-engineered from Garnet's to be shown in "Keystone Motel".
Sapphire and Ruby are both named after varieties of corundum (crystalline aluminum oxide, chemical formula Al2O3).
The name "Sapphy" (as in "Laughy Sapphy," Ruby's pet name for Sapphire) is very similar to the word "sapphic." In the most specific sense, "sapphic" means "pertaining to Sappho," the name of a famous female poet in Ancient Greece. The word also can be used to mean "a woman attracted to women", which describes not only the historic Sappho but also both Ruby and Sapphire in their romantic relationship together.
However, the word "sapphic" is now relatively archaic in the English language. The more common word with the same definition today is "lesbian," originally used in allusion to Sappho herself because she came from the Greek island of Lesbos whose geographical natives are called "Lesbians."
Sapphire's cryokinesis – lowering the temperature directly opposes Ruby's pyrokinesis – raising the temperature, which could represent hers and Ruby's opposite reactions to stress.
In "Keystone Motel", Sapphire's attitude could be a reference to her Thermo-Regulation powers. For instance, she "freezes Ruby out" (literally) and acts both cold and distant toward Ruby and Steven.
Out of all the Crystal Gems, Sapphire has personally engaged in combat the least. This may be because Sapphires are made to be fancy, diplomatic court members.
According to Matt Burnett, Sapphire probably doesn't have a weapon.[11]
In "The Answer" and "Keystone Motel", Sapphire's philosophy toward future vision seemed to be based on Hard Determinism, the idea that fate is always in control and that free-will is just an illusion. This is deeply in contrast to Garnet's philosophy of Soft Determinism, the idea that fate grants options in the exercise of free-will.
In "Made of Honor", Sapphire appears to have a fondness for dolphins, enough so to ask for dolphins to be depicted on her and Ruby's wedding invitations.
Her relationship with Ruby is based on Ian Jones-Quartey and Rebecca Sugar's relationship.[12]
"Reunited" inverted Sapphire and Ruby's usual appearances, with the masculine appearing Ruby wearing a wedding dress and the feminine Sapphire wearing a Tuxedo.
During times of great disharmony in opinion, she and Ruby can talk to each other individually through Garnet, as shown in "Keeping it Together" and "Keystone Motel".
The first hint of Sapphire along with Ruby was in the episode "Together Breakfast" when Garnet opens the door to the Burning Room. When she does that, two lines – one light red, the other a darker shade of red – coming from two blue and red circles, meet the star and then continue down when they connect, a clear reference to Garnet being a fusion.
Before her introduction, Sapphire had a small cameo in "Fusion Cuisine" when the Gems unfused from Alexandrite, but she and Ruby quickly fused to keep their existence a secret, intending to reveal their existence during Steven's birthday.
In the extended theme song, Sapphire is gracefully holding her hands together, interlocking her fingers. This shows that she is calm, graceful and passionate while Ruby is shown to be cracking or holding her knuckles, a sign of toughness or that she is ready to fight. On the other hand, Ruby seems calmer than expected from her and Sapphire more upbeat than usual, indicating that being Garnet brings balance to both of their personalities.
Sapphire possibly has her own room in the Crystal Temple, as the Temple Gate has a blue gemstone and a red gemstone that Garnet opens simultaneously.
"Hit the Diamond" marks Sapphire and Ruby's first appearance outside of a StevenBomb.
Throughout history, sapphire has symbolized truth, sincerity, and loyalty.
Sapphire has some similarities to the character Elsa from the movie Frozen. They are both calm, poised, intelligent, and noble figures who possess cryokinetic powers shown when their emotions run out of control. They also both wear blue dresses.
Despite the fact that she has been a Crystal Gem for 5,752 years, she is one of the only members (aside from the uncorrupted gems) that have not reformed with a star.

Sapphire's gemstone is located on the palm of her right hand, featuring a triangular facet. The front and back are symmetrical. It has a light blue ring around it, which is usually hidden inside her body unless she is regenerating. It is an octahedron, specifically a truncated trigonal dipyramid.

Appearance
Garnet is currently the second tallest of the remaining Crystal Gems and the fourth-shortest fusion. She has three eyes, which are usually hidden behind a visor. Her right eye is a medium ruby-red, her left a medium sapphire-blue, while the center third eye is a reddish-violet. Her gemstones are embedded in the palms of her hands. Like Ruby, she has a deep violet cube-shaped afro and a purplish-red skin tone, while her facial features more closely resemble Sapphire's.
First Form
In "The Answer", Ruby and Sapphire fuse into Garnet for the first time. Garnet has curly hair that is mostly light blue with the left side being mostly hot pink instead and purple-maroon skin. Their bodysuit is split diagonally. The right side resembles Ruby's bodysuit but colored light pink with medium length sleeves. The collar and sleeve on the right side have a dark indigo cuff/collar. The left side resembles Sapphire's dress, but colored indigo, with a slightly puffy pale blue sleeve. She also has a black glove on her left arm starting from her elbow and covering her entire hand. Her indigo half-dress stops a little below her hips, where it extends out a bit. Her leggings are hot pink on her right leg and dark indigo on her left. She has a tall dark indigo boot on her right foot and no left boot, and she also does not have a visor like her later regenerations. This form reappears in a flashback from "Now We're Only Falling Apart" and Steven Universe: The Movie, when Garnet re-fuses.
1980s-90s Regeneration
In "Story for Steven", "We Need to Talk", and "Greg the Babysitter", episodes that flashback to around the 1980s, Garnet's bodysuit is red, white, and black. The top half is a dark red with a white collar and zigzag design, with lighter red puffy sleeves. The bottom half is black with red on the heels and toes of her feet. Her visor is a tinted blue and yellow, her hair is the same length as her current design but the same size as her debut design, and she is not wearing gloves. Her gauntlets are also the same as her debut design.
Pre-regeneration (Debut)
She had medium, maroon-colored skin, and black hair styled into a cube-shaped afro. She almost always wore triangular futuristic, translucent orange-tinted shades, which covers all three of her eyes. She wore a black and crimson bodysuit, with cubic shoulder pads (the right one being magenta, the left one being crimson), and a pink star with a magenta outline on her chest. She also wore long, elbow-length black gloves that covered her middle fingers. This form also appears in the flashback of "Three Gems and a Baby".
Post-regeneration (Previous)
From "Jail Break" to "Together Alone", Garnet continued to wear the same bodysuit, but with a different color scheme and pattern. As opposed to crimson and black, her bodysuit became more colorful. Her right half was covered in a vivid blue-violet stocking, and her left was covered in a deep orchid/eggplant stocking. Her skin tone also changed, now cerise rather than pinkish-brown. Her weapons became a dark reddish-cerise color. However, there is a ring of black on the outside closest to her arms, and the glowing aura that appears when summoning them became pale magenta. Instead of a gold star on the end facing her arms, they are just plain orange. The star on her top's color also changed - instead of a pink star with a magenta outline, it became an amaranth-colored star with a soft-pink outline. Her hair was changed from black to dark-indigo and became shorter and smaller than before. Her shades, instead of pale-orange and white, became a soft-pink and pale-blue. Her shoulder pads were oval-like instead of cube-like, and both were a dark orchid/eggplant color as well as her arms and gloves. This costume lacked contrast in colors compared to her pre-regeneration outfit. The two halves of her lower body were separated straight down the middle as opposed to the left thigh before regeneration. Her visor also changed colors from pale red to blue frequently to indicate Ruby or Sapphire's impulse in Garnet.
After her reformation in "Reunited", she wore a copper ring on her left ring finger and a tin ring on her right ring finger to indicate Ruby and Sapphire's marriage.
Current Regeneration
As of "Change Your Mind". Garnet's visor is now orange and takes the shape of the top of a star. The shape of her suit is unaffected, but the coloring is. The upper torso is now pink with a white, 4-pointed star on top with a light pink outline which also now faces sideways. The abdominal area is pinkish-red on the left side and medium blue on the right. The legs are now completely indigo and magenta at the toes. Her shoulder pads are also a brighter shade of pink than her skin, and she keeps her gloves and wedding rings. She keeps this regeneration after regenerating in Steven Universe: The Movie. Not noticed by many, her skin tone is slightly darker.

Personality
Though she is often the most pragmatic and straightforward of the Crystal Gems, Garnet tends to act on intuition rather than seriously analyzing a situation, as often seen throughout the series. As the leader, Garnet is often the peacemaker of the Crystal Gems, especially when Pearl and Amethyst start arguing. She demands the utmost respect from the other Crystal Gems and is not hesitant to berate team members should they refuse to follow an order.
Equable and mellow, Garnet is capable of remaining composed in most situations – this characteristic is derived from Sapphire. This is displayed in the episode, "The Return", where Amethyst and Pearl were at a loss for words when they tried to explain to Steven why he was forbidden from fighting alongside them at the Gem Warship's landing. Garnet was the only Crystal Gem who was able to effectively get their point across and convince Steven to join Beach City's evacuation. She was able to remain strong and act practically despite the dangerous and uncertain situation.
Garnet demonstrates a fierce, competitive spirit. This is best seen while she is playing volleyball in "Beach Party", "Steven Tag" in "Keep Beach City Weird", and arcade games in "Arcade Mania". Garnet also tends to act in extremes, either maintaining her very reserved nature or lashing out with strong emotion. Both of these personalities come from her two constituent Gems, the conservative Sapphire and passionate Ruby. Despite this, it should also be noted that Garnet can be seen with emotions neutral to these, but it is a rare occurrence.
While mostly level-headed, Garnet can still lose her cool. When Steven began rapidly aging in "So Many Birthdays", Garnet started violently shaking him in her desperation, believing that violence might be the answer. Another example of this can be seen in "Fusion Cuisine" as she panics under pressure when talking to Connie's mother over the phone, leading her to claim that Steven and Connie had died while playing with swords. In "Steven's Dream", when Greg has been captured, she is constantly apologizing to Steven about how she should have told him about what was going to happen since the beginning.
The de-fusion and eventual re-fusion of Ruby and Sapphire in "The Return" and "Jail Break" appear to have had an impact on Garnet's personality (which might be due to hiding her fusion status from Steven); in consequent episodes, she appears much more outspoken, lively, and engaging. In "Jail Break", she shows great enthusiasm when reunited with Steven and in her fight with Jasper, as opposed to her reserved façade pre-regeneration. When looking at the events of "Joy Ride", she speaks the most out of the three, again contrasting with pre-regeneration Garnet. In "When It Rains", before the gems leave on a mission Garnet forms a heart with her hands and tells Steven she loves him. "Log Date 7 15 2" is the greatest example of Garnet's change as she talks to Peridot with openness, compassion, and warmth, even offering to fuse with her to help them understand each other. She has also slowly become more fun-loving. In "Kindergarten Kid", she reveals she and the Gems stayed to watch Steven and Peridot because Peridot's plans would be funny. In "Know Your Fusion", she expresses both shock and joy at Steven and Amethyst fusing, picking up and shaking Pearl while screaming in happiness. In "Mindful Education", she made a "fusion sign" to cheer on Stevonnie.
Garnet is also the most encouraging of the Crystal Gems and is usually the first to give Steven the chance to try out his ideas (particularly in "Marble Madness"). She prefers to emphasize when her show of trust causes a breakthrough, such as when Greg Universe helped in "The Message" and even considers someone's willingness to try something – whether or not they are capable of it – as a form of success on their part. However, when Garnet feels betrayed, such as in "Mirror Gem" or "Cry for Help", she can lash out with a temper that is rarely seen. This was an additional source of tension in "Cry for Help" onwards. "Future Vision" turned things on its head, as Garnet found she had betrayed Steven's trust in her, and subsequently felt self-remorse.
Garnet believes fusion to be sacred and personal, something that can be traced back to Ruby rather than Sapphire. Garnet tells Stevonnie in "Alone Together" that fusion is considered neither one person nor two people, but rather an experience. She was open enough to answer Steven's personal questions regarding Ruby and Sapphire in "Keeping It Together". As such, any form of misuse of fusion greatly upsets Garnet and is one of the few things that breaks her otherwise calm and controlled demeanor; seeing Homeworld's experiments disturbed and frightened her so immensely that she nearly separated from the shock. Also in "Cry for Help", she was mad at Pearl for fixing the Communication Tower, causing them to fuse into Sardonyx for no good reason, and she refused to forgive her for a while. Her belief in fusion leads to her extreme reaction to seeing Smoky Quartz for the first time, but it also allows her to aid Steven and Connie, and by extension Stevonnie, work through their negative emotions.
Garnet has demonstrated that she takes her position as a leader seriously and has a strong moral compass. In "Cry for Help", Garnet is deeply disturbed by Pearl lying to her about Peridot rebuilding the Communication Tower so they can form Sardonyx, and for wasting time in finding Peridot. Although she has a sense of morality and takes the team's ethic seriously, Garnet's silent and stoic nature does sometimes interfere with expressing her thoughts and feelings to her teammates. This has happened multiple times, as seen with Amethyst in "Reformed" with Amethyst racing to satisfy Garnet's demands and with Pearl in "Friend Ship" while Pearl was trying to make amends with Garnet by finding Peridot. Garnet's anger rendered her inarticulate enough that she was unable to tell Pearl that being tricked into repeated fusion without a real purpose left her feeling extremely violated. Garnet tends to be very independent, and she will often go on missions by herself even if others want to join her. She can be oblivious and stubborn, as seen with Pearl's warning in "Coach Steven" and to Steven's explanation of his dream in "Chille Tid". It also shows in "Steven's Dream", Garnet attempts to change subjects as she is afraid of how Steven will react to more information about his mother.
While Garnet is usually serious and hardworking, she can sometimes act quirky and off-putting. For example, when Steven tells the Crystal Gems about their tired look in "Chille Tid", Garnet says they look "awesome" instead. According to Steven in "Fusion Cuisine", Garnet is blunt during conversations and lacks an empathetic foresight for others, usually hurting their feelings in the process. An example is in "Love Letters" where she rejects Jamie's romantic advance, making him feel very hurt, and curating a letter with Steven and Connie for Jamie that rejects him with the simple straightforward words, "no, the end, forever and even after that."
This blunt attitude is also expressed non-verbally by Garnet on several occasions. In "Together Breakfast", she confiscates Steven's smartphone without his permission and proceeds to incinerate it after he takes a picture of the Evil Spirit Scroll she was going to burn.
Steven Universe: The Movie shows Garnet at her most open and fun-loving after three years of peace with the uncorrupted Gems and Off-Colors. When she refuses after being hit by Spinel's Rejuvenator, she shows uncertainty and naivety similar to when she formed the first time. When she regains her memories, she hugs the other Crystal Gems while singing "True Kinda Love".
Steven Universe Future continues with Garnet being open, blunt, and unafraid to speak her mind, such as stating how weird it is to have the Rose Quartzes around, and humorously scaring the gems of her home safety class by telling them how they were going to die in "A Very Special Episode". "Snow Day" shows her continued openness, playfulness and teasing nature as she and Amethyst play Steven tag while also trying to continue to care for Steven despite how much he's grown.

History Pre-Series
During the Crystal Gem raid on Blue Diamond's court at the start of the Rebellion, Ruby saved Sapphire from being harmed by Pearl, causing them to accidentally fuse. When Garnet is formed, she is confused and doesn't understand what she is, since Ruby only ever fused with other Rubies and Sapphire never fused at all. Garnet quickly loses form as Blue Diamond's court closes in on her, since fusion between different kinds of Gems is strictly prohibited. In order to save Ruby, who blamed herself for the ordeal, Sapphire fled with her and the two became outcasts, able to form Garnet again. Garnet had trouble getting used to being a fusion at first, and tripped down a hill, where she was found by Rose Quartz and Pearl. Garnet explained her confusion to Rose, to which she replied that it was perfectly fine to be a fusion, recruiting her to the Crystal Gems.
During the Rebellion, Garnet fought in order to live freely as a fusion and preserve Ruby and Sapphire's love for each other. She described a specific battle of the war as "a maelstrom of destruction and death". Bismuth also revealed that her and Garnet took on a battalion of Quartz soldiers together, to which Garnet corrects her to battalions. Garnet was aware that Pink Diamond was shattered during the war, believing the culprit to be Rose Quartz like the other Crystal and Homeworld Gems. Garnet and Pearl were both protected by Rose's Shield from the Corrupting Light at the end of the war.
Over the thousands of years following the war, Garnet lived with Rose Quartz and Pearl at the Crystal Temple. There, she assisted the team in containing Corrupted Gems and performing other duties in order to protect the Earth and its inhabitants. Eventually, Garnet met Amethyst after the Gems find her at the Prime Kindergarten.
At some point hundreds of years ago, Garnet and Pearl met Buddy Buddwick when he was exploring the Strawberry Battlefield. Pearl draws a map for Buddy of dangerous places not to visit, and Garnet tells him that "Only the bravest, most courageous, most memorable explorers would dare to visit these fascinating places.". Also around this time, Garnet and the other Gems helped a sailor who fell overboard into shark infested water, as shown in an old Gem painting. Garnet, specifically, is punching a shark away from the boat.
When Greg Universe first came to the Temple looking for Rose about 20–30 years ago, Garnet had just been coming back from containing a Corrupted Gem. She tells Greg to state his purpose, and threatens to throw him back over the fence that was supposed to keep humans out in the first place. Garnet and Amethyst chuckle when Pearl becomes noticeably jealous of Rose and Greg's relationship. Another time, Greg is singing a duet with Rose, and all the Crystal Gems are playing instruments except for Rose. Garnet is playing her keytar. After witnessing Rose and Pearl fuse, Greg goes to Garnet for advice on fusing with Rose. Garnet explains that "First you need a gem at the core of your being. Then you need a body that can turn into light. Then you need a partner you can trust with that light.". Garnet encourages Greg, telling him that she thinks he can fuse with Rose if he danced like himself. When Pearl becomes jealous and asks why they are still dancing after the fusion failed, Garnet explains that it did work.
After Rose and Greg have Steven, Garnet becomes the de facto leader of the Crystal Gems. One day during a winter storm, the Crystal Gems come to Vidalia's House to drop off presents for Steven. Garnet's present is a razor, and says that he'll need it in the future. When Steven gets excited, his Gem glows, leading Garnet to believe that it's Rose. Greg couldn't figure out why his Gem was glowing, leading to the Gems to kidnap the baby to figure it out themselves. Garnet explains to the other Gems that she believes Steven is a fusion, and Rose is just trying to unfuse. Garnet unfuses to show Steven what to do, but this only results in the baby crying. Garnet fuses once more, and says "I'm here! You know me! You know them, too! I don't understand!". After realizing Steven is his own being, Garnet tells the Gems that from now on, everything has to be about Steven, not Rose. As Steven grows up, Garnet assists in building a Beach House for him to live in.

Abilities
Garnet possesses standard Gem abilities: bubbling, shapeshifting, fusion, regeneration, agelessness, and superhuman strength/durability.
Garnet has a high tolerance for pain, as shown in "So Many Birthdays" when she displays no visible reaction, let alone discomfort when Amethyst blindly swings a baseball bat at the side of her head. This is explained and justified since she is a fusion of two Gems. While not outright invincible, it is shown that Garnet is more physically durable than Pearl or Amethyst. It is shown that she endures different levels of damage almost daily, withstanding falling cars, scuffles with Jasper, and various other forms of physical force.
Fusions
When fused with Amethyst, they form Sugilite.
When fused with Pearl, they form Sardonyx.
When fused with Pearl and Amethyst, they form Alexandrite.
When fused with Pearl, Amethyst, and Rose Quartz, they form Obsidian.
When fused with Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Sunstone.
When fused with Pearl, Amethyst, and Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Obsidian.
Skillset
Gauntlet Proficiency: When channeling the collective power of the universe through her gemstones, Garnet can summon a pair of gauntlets. Garnet is highly proficient when using her gauntlets and is extremely skilled in hand-to-hand combat. She can deal massive strikes that can deal a heavy amount of damage and deliver swift blows with lightning speed. As of "Bismuth", Garnet's gauntlets have had spiked brass knuckles added onto them.
Rocket Gauntlets: Garnet takes aim with her gauntlets and shoots them as projectiles in "Watermelon Steven". In "Reformed", after Garnet launches her gauntlets, her hands are detached from her body, and her gemstones are moved to the stubs of her arms.
Weapon Size Augmentation: Garnet can increase the size of her gauntlets, easily quadrupling their size, and deal increased damage at the cost of reduced speed. This was hinted during "Garnet's Universe". Being an imaginary story, that means Steven knew about that power before the real debut in "Warp Tour".
Deflection: Garnet can use her gauntlets as shields as seen in "Onion Trade" to deflect a volley of Dave Guys. They are also used in "Catch and Release" to block Peridot's electrokinetic discharge in Amethyst's whip, although it is unknown whether Garnet simply prevented the electric current using her gauntlets or absorbed it with her electrokinesis.
Shock Wave Emission: As seen in "Gem Harvest", Garnet can pound her gauntlets into something and create a shock wave strong enough to make something, such as carrots, fly out of the ground.
Photokinesis: In "It Could've Been Great", Garnet can be seen using Photokinesis, an ability she shares with Pearl, "Doc", "Eyeball", Peridot, and the Rutile Twins. This might be a power that every Gem can use or a power inherited from Ruby.
Gem Storage: Garnet can materialize different items out of her gemstone(s), similarly to Pearl. In "Serious Steven", she summoned the key to the Pyramid Temple and in "Giant Woman and Love Letters", she summoned her goggles.
Fusion Realm: In the episode "Mindful Education", Garnet was shown to have helped Stevonnie gain a deeper connection to themself; the way this was done was apparently through a quite easily gained meditative state in which Garnet guided Stevonnie throughout. When Garnet and Stevonnie entered this realm Garnet showed Stevonnie how to keep in touch with themself and how to gain a deeper understanding of both their sides and how to resist falling apart by being honest to themself.
Unique Abilities
“No one can see the future. I can see options and trajectories. Time is like a river... that splits into creeks, or pools into lakes, or careens down waterfalls. I have the map, and I steer the ship.”
—Garnet explaining her future vision, . "Future Vision"
Future Vision: Garnet can see multiple future outcomes and probabilities with her third eye. This includes extremely unlikely and ridiculous outcomes, as a considerable amount of her available visions depict Steven's (and possibly other individuals') demise at the hands of mundane tasks or objects regularly. Future vision must be used consciously and takes some time to use, as Garnet has been shown in a thinking position when activating it. During that time, someone can alter the future, as seen in "Marble Madness", when Steven ruined the plan to learn about Peridot by going up to her while Garnet was still using future vision. Garnet must also consciously seek out specific details and judge which possible futures are most probable, which means she can overlook some possibilities, such as Pearl deceiving her in "Cry for Help". Garnet's visor improves her clarity and focuses while using future vision,[1] but she can still use the ability with it off, as demonstrated in "Reunited" when she foresaw the Diamonds' arrival.
Garnet's future vision comes from Sapphire, as confirmed in "Keystone Motel", although Sapphire's future vision is different from Garnet's.[2] Due to Sapphire's passive personality, she can only see one future where she does not intervene. Garnet has Ruby's impulsive influence, so she can see multiple futures where she does intervene.
Temporary Power Transfer: In "Winter Forecast", "Jail Break", and "Future Boy Zoltron" it is shown that she can temporarily pass on her future vision ability to others through lip contact. While Garnet has only been seen using lip-to-forehead contact to transfer her power, it is unknown if this is the only method. As she has only been seen sharing her power with Steven, her affection could say bias on how she chooses to transfer the power.
Heat Resistance: Her invulnerability is often displayed in her extreme resistance to heat, from when she had scalding-hot coffee splash onto her without flinching in "Future Vision" to when she left to retrieve the Earth Beetle (which required her to swim inactive lava) in "Giant Woman". It has also been said that she could swim in the core of the Sun and survive.[3] This may be because of Ruby's thermo-regulation.
Enhanced Calculations: Garnet mentions her ability to sense structural integrity in "Cheeseburger Backpack".
It is currently unknown whether this is a unique power, a separate portion of her heightened senses like her future vision, or just a simple observation.
Electrokinesis: Garnet can generate electricity, as seen in "The Message" when she used it to charge the battery of Greg's van, "Catch and Release" when she was tangling with Peridot, and "Arcade Mania" when she restarted "Meat Beat Mania" after Steven unplugged the game. Garnet has this ability due to the combination of Ruby's pyrokinesis and Sapphire's cryokinesis.
Electric Resistance: Garnet is impervious to electricity, as seen in "Future Vision" when she easily deflected a lightning bolt that was about to hit her and Steven with her gemstone. It is seen again in "Catch and Release" when she stopped Peridot's electricity from traveling down Amethyst's whip, only to send her electricity back at her. It was also used in "That Will Be All" when she caught Holly Blue Agate's electric whip in her hands to stop it from hitting Greg and Steven
Electric Jump: In "When It Rains", Garnet uses her electrokinesis on the offensive for the second time, generating electricity and releasing it on impact with the ground, where the energy then travels to the target. This particular move is long-ranged.
Super Speed: In "Arcade Mania", Garnet karate chops the inner arms of the Gem Cave Creature and shakes Meat Beat Mania's ham controllers at incredible speeds. In "The Message", Garnet quickly places couch cushions around the Wailing Stone. In "Bismuth", Garnet engages Bismuth in combat with an immensely fast approach. She inherited this ability from Sapphire.
Clandestine Abilities
Levitation: While controlled by White Diamond, Garnet can, indirectly, suspend her body.
White Burst: While controlled by White Diamond (probably via the same), Garnet is capable of shooting, through her eyes, a white energy beam equivalent to White Diamond aura, in which it can also control, mentally, the affected Gems.
Attack the Light
Gauntlet Punch: Garnet does a one-two punch with her gauntlets. Does medium damage and takes 2 Star Points.
Shield Breaker: Garnet smashes the ground to create a defense-lowering shield-breaking wave of energy. If you hit the red spot, it does damage. Takes 3 Star Points.
Rocket Punch: Garnet aims her gauntlets and fires, dealing high damage and creating an explosion. Upgrades increase the size of the explosion and reduce the Star Point cost to 4.
Six-Punch Combo: Garnet punches the enemy multiple times depending on how many timed commands the player successfully does. Takes 6 Star Points.
Fuse: Garnet fuses with Pearl and Amethyst to form Alexandrite and smashes the enemies with a fist multiple times for lots of damage. This move lowers attack and defense, takes 9 Star Points, and requires all Gems to have full harmony to use. All the Crystal Gems, except Steven, can activate this.

Trivia
Garnet is rarely seen as consuming food or drinking.
This is cited in "Keystone Motel", with the clarification that she does enjoy it from time to time.[6]
She later reveals in "Future Vision" that she enjoys coffee.
She is also seen eating in some comics.
Garnet has complete Heterochromia iridium, which means each of her eyes are a different color.
In the crossover with OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes Garnet states that she wears her visor to enhance her future vision, and also because they're prescription. This is to be considered canon, as Ian Jones-Quartey stated in a podcast that a canonical fact about Garnet would be stated in the otherwise non-canonical crossover.
In "Steven and the Stevens" and "We Need to Talk", it is shown that Garnet knows how to play the keytar and that Greg may have taught her how to play it.
According to Rebecca Sugar, Garnet's fighting and dancing styles are based on Waacking.[7]
Garnet's favorite music is the works of Estelle, according to Rebecca Sugar.[8]
According to Ian Jones-Quartey, Rebecca Sugar planned Garnet to be a fusion long before the Pilot, which also includes the fact that Ruby and Sapphire would be the two Gems to make her.[9]
Several hints were given to show that Garnet was a fusion, which was not revealed until "Jail Break".
During the Crystal Gems' introductions in the Pilot, Garnet had chunks of ruby and sapphire gemstones laying around her.
During the Pilot, the original design of the Crystal Temple had ruby and sapphire gemstones on its hands.
During the intro, Garnet has two shooting stars on her title card.[10]
During the scene where Alexandrite breaks up in "Fusion Cuisine", Garnet's silhouette is shaped as two individual Gems while Pearl and Amethyst have normal silhouettes.
In "Steven and the Stevens", Garnet was playing a keytar, which is a fusion of a keyboard and guitar.
In "Monster Buddies", Amethyst refers to Garnet as "the G-Squad," with the "Squad" most likely referring to Ruby and Sapphire.
Garnet's door involves two active lights, red and blue, unlike the other members of the Crystal Gems, who only have one active light each. The red light is for Ruby while the blue light is for Sapphire.
In "Alone Together", Garnet mentions she does not have trouble fusing.
In "The Return", when Jasper poofs Garnet, she turns into two separate gemstones, Ruby and Sapphire. 
Throughout the series, Garnet has never asked a single question of any kind.
In "Know Your Fusion", when Pearl asks Garnet to question Steven and Amethyst, she replies that she "can't", implying that this is an order rather than a choice.
It is most likely dated back to "The Answer" when Garnet first met Rose Quartz, who told her to not question themselves and to ask "no more questions".
It has been shown in "Fusion Cuisine", "Know Your Fusion", and "I Am My Mom" that when a fusion involving Garnet falls apart, Ruby and Sapphire's forms can be seen holding onto each other before they re-fuse and completely take form.
Ian Jones-Quartey's favorite Gem is Garnet.[11]
In the Guide to the Crystal Gems (Steven Universe)|Guide to the Crystal Gems Garnet describes herself as "electric" because she is a combination of Ruby's "hot" and Sapphire's "cold."
In real life, it is possible to form electricity from "hot" and "cold", when cold air and hot air meet in the sky, it causes the water in the clouds to rub against each other and form static electricity inside. After it has "charged up", super voltage electricity will break through the resistance of air and strike to the ground, which is lightning.
Garnet's square-based design may likely be a reference to actual garnet gemstones, which are formed in the cubic crystal system.
In "Steven's Birthday" Greg and Garnet are seen looking at a "Stella" album. The name and appearance references Shine, an album by Garnet's voice actor, Estelle.
Garnet's bass was inspired by Michael Jackson.[12]
Additionally, her expanded musical palette utilizes synth bells and pads, specifically designed for her.
Also, her music was reverse-engineered to create Ruby and Sapphire's instruments, which were seen in "Keystone Motel".
Each of Garnet's forms seen so far appears to be based on different types of garnet gemstones.
Her form when she first fused, with its light blues, pinks, and reds, greatly resembles the rarest form of color change garnet with the same colors.
Her debut form, consisting of reds, blacks, and browns, resembled normal red, Almandine, or Pyrope garnet.
Her current regeneration, with a new palette of dark purples, violets, and magentas, is extremely similar to Rhodolite, a variety of pyrope, which itself is a member of the garnet group.
According to an interview statement from Lamar Abrams, she and Greg regularly play tennis.[13]
This is later shown in "Letters to Lars".
In "Know Your Fusion", an illustration of Garnet is seen on a "test your strength" device. On this device, Garnet is considered stronger than Pearl and Stevonnie, but not stronger than Opal.
In "Three Gems and a Baby", it is revealed that when Steven was a baby, after seeing his gem glow for the first time, Garnet believed that Steven was a unique Gem Fusion.
In October 2016, Rebecca Sugar held a book signing for "The Answer" in NYC where she used a limited edition Garnet stamp of her design. It was retired afterward and printed only during that event.
During the episode "Are You My Dad?", it is shown that she likes to draw herself.
Rebecca describes in the podcast that Garnet's lack of question-asking is associated with a pact she made with Rose, which "[the show] will go into very soon."[4]
According to sketches in Steven Universe: Art & Origins, some names considered for Garnet were "Zircon" and "Onyx".
The name "Zircon" would later be used for two new Gems in "The Trial".
Garnet is the traditional birthstone for January, the zodiacal stone for Capricorn and the second anniversary stone. Estelle, Garnet's voice actress, was born in January.
Garnets are associated with strength, bravery, love, determination, and self-confidence, all characteristics that fit in with Garnet's personality.
According to Rebecca Sugar in an interview, Garnet can see multiple futures, while Sapphire is only able to see one single main time stream.[14]
Garnet unfused once per season until the Season 5 episode "Together Alone".
Garnet's orange star-shaped visors in her new form bear a resemblance to the glasses Simon wears as a way to honor Kamina, who Garnet shares her leadership role with, from the Mecha Anime Gurren Lagann.
Garnet's wedding rings are seemingly part of her form now, as in Steven Universe: The Movie they did not drop when she was poofed and they reformed with her much like her visor. It may be from the fact that Bismuth forged the rings.

Sapphire's gemstone on Garnet; it has a triangular facet. As seen in "The Return" and the flashback in "Jail Break", it has a light blue ring around the edge (normally hidden inside her hand), and is flatter on the back. Its overall shape is circular. It is located on her right palm.
Ruby's gemstone on Garnet; it has a square facet. As seen in "The Return" and the flashback in "Jail Break", it has a pink ring around the edge (normally hidden inside her hand), and is flatter on the back. Its overall shape is circular. It is located on her left palm.

Appearance
Ruby has bright scarlet skin, burgundy irises, and dark burgundy, dark red eyes, and square-shaped hair. She is shorter than Steven and has a thick build. Her gemstone is located in the palm of her left hand.
First Form
In "The Answer", which flashes back to the Rebellion and shows Ruby when she was still a soldier for Homeworld, Ruby's outfit is similar to her current one, except she has a maroon belt, she does not have a headband, and there is more brown than maroon on her tank top. This form reappears in Steven Universe: The Movie when The Crystal Gems are reset to their first forms from the Gem Rejuvenator.
Previous Regeneration
Before her and Sapphire's regeneration in "Jail Break", Ruby's top is similar to the one she wore as a Homeworld soldier. The top was black and maroon, and she still had her maroon headband and boots and brown shorts, as seen in "Three Gems and a Baby".
Debut
Ruby wore a maroon and brown tank top and a matching maroon headband tied around her hair. Her ensemble also included mid-thigh burgundy shorts, and short, pointed maroon boots similar to Amethyst's.
Current
After her regeneration in "Change Your Mind", Ruby continues to wear a maroon tank top, but the top part of her tank top is now brown. Along with that, she wears long, brown pants and her headband is now golden-bronze and shiny.
Other Outfits
"Reunited" shows Ruby wearing a white wedding dress and walking down the aisle in the role as bride. “The Question” shows Ruby wearing a cowboy outfit in almost the entire episode, as she acts like a cowboy.

Personality
​​​​​​According to Rebecca Sugar, Ruby "has no sense of what's going on around her" and "can only focus on one thing only at the expense of all things".[1] She appears to be a bad conversationalist, occasionally speaking in somewhat unintelligible mumbles, a trait which she carries onto Garnet. She is also seen to be bad at lying under pressure, giving the Rubies the idea to search the barn. Though Ruby can't focus on what's going on around her, she is thoughtful and introspective as seen in "The Question".
Ruby mainly embodies Garnet's strength and courage. She is extremely passionate and emotional, known to be very hot-headed and temperamental. She has violent ways of exhibiting her anger; this is best seen in "Keystone Motel", when she is infuriated to the point of using her thermokinesis and boiled the motel pool, even summoning her weapon at The Best Diner in the World. Despite her wild emotions, Ruby is still very willing to admit when she has taken her anger too far and will admit when she is in the wrong. When not angry, Ruby is a suave romantic, soft with words, and quite flirtatious towards Sapphire. When she channels her emotion on love rather than on rage, she can be affectionate and extremely caring, feeling the need to protect, and even cool down for those whom she truly loves. In "Hit the Diamond", Ruby is calmer and collected in terms of her anger than she had been in the past, but she seemed to get really nervous when she did not know what to do. Her romantic nature is also on full display when she spends most of the game flirting with Sapphire to the point it affects the Crystal Gems' chances of winning. It is only when Steven talks to her that she focuses on the game and pushes Sapphire to do the same. "Now We're Only Falling Apart" shows Ruby being the calm one after Garnet unfuses upon learning that Rose is Pink Diamond. She calmly pleads with a distraught Sapphire to talk about it, although she is left weeping after Sapphire warps away. She also showed enough forethought to write Sapphire a letter before leaving. Ruby places much value in trust and fusion, being absolutely outraged with Pearl when she learns she was tricked into fusing into Sardonyx. In "The Answer", it is seen that Ruby originally has very little sense of self-preservation or individuality, willing to take the blame for fusing with Sapphire and is content with her own inevitable destruction, arguing that there are "tons of her" in reference to the various identical Rubies found on Homeworld. She still possesses this to an extent as seen in "Jail Break" when she is only worried about Sapphire and said "Who cares?" when Sapphire asked if she is hurt. Moments of calm bring out the playful tease inside Ruby, which is for the most part trapped under her wild emotions. "The Question" reveals her more spontaneous and adventurous side and highlights her desire to find her own purpose and individuality without Sapphire though she later revealed she was sad that Sapphire wasn't there to share experiences with. This led to Ruby proposing to Sapphire.

History
Approximately 5,750 years ago, Ruby lived on Homeworld as a common foot soldier. Homeworld was attempting to create a new colony on Earth, which was overseen by Blue Diamond. She was part of the diplomatic team sent to stop Rose's Rebellion on Earth, as one of the three Rubies assigned to guard Sapphire, an aristocratic Gem with prophetic vision, adamant for destroying the uprising in its crib. When the rebels attacked, the three Rubies fought back, attempting to fulfill their jobs, only for two of them to be poofed by Rose Quartz and Pearl before turning to Sapphire.
Before her imminent poofing, Sapphire thanked Ruby for her service, at which point Ruby realized Sapphire had already predicted this and that she knew her physical form would be destroyed. Unable to accept that she had failed in her mission of protecting her, Ruby tackled Sapphire to defend her from Pearl and caused them to accidentally form Garnet, changing the prophecy foretold by Sapphire. They immediately de-fused and were surrounded by an angry crowd. Furious that Ruby interfered with the outcome of the battle (and participating in an unsanctioned fusion with a member of her court), Blue Diamond ordered that she be shattered. However, Sapphire grabbed Ruby and jumped out of the Cloud Arena towards the Earth below, landing them softly with her levitation.
Ruby was distraught that she was unable to protect Sapphire. When it began to rain, she carried Sapphire to a cave for shelter, where she saw Sapphire's single eye for the first time. The two talked about their experience and feelings being fused as Garnet.
Ruby and Sapphire grew closer and eventually decided to fuse again. Garnet was found by Pearl and Rose shortly after forming. Upon being met with acceptance and not revulsion, she began to bombard Rose with questions about the events and circumstances that allowed her to become Garnet, as well as her own feelings about existing as a fusion. Rose told her to "never question this", and said that she was already the answer to all her questions—love. This would be the beginning of Ruby's existence as part of Garnet for the next few millennia, fighting the Gem Homeworld with the Crystal Gems to protect Earth.
"The Return"
Garnet is poofed by Jasper and as a result Ruby and Sapphire reform separately after being kept as prisoners on the Gem Warship with the other Gems.
"Jail Break"
Steven lets Ruby out of her cell and she immediately begins to look for Sapphire. Ruby only wants to find Sapphire and does not care about any other Gems on the ship like Lapis Lazuli. She listens to Sapphire's singing and heads in her direction. After Steven frees her, Ruby and Sapphire reunite in the center of the ship. They make sure they are both okay before fusing once more into Garnet.
"Keeping It Together"
Ruby and Sapphire converse while they are Garnet after they see the Cluster Gems. Garnet almost unfuses, but Ruby and Sapphire find peace once again. Ruby becomes enraged and Sapphire tries to calm her down.
"Keystone Motel"
Garnet unfuses because Ruby and Sapphire have a conflict over Pearl's deception in "Cry For Help". Ruby believes that Pearl tricking Garnet into forming Sardonyx is an unforgivable act, while Sapphire is more open to Pearl redeeming herself. Ruby storms out of the hotel room and paces outside to vent her frustration. Ruby's rage manifests in giving off intense heat (her rage burns the carpet and makes the pool temperature rise until it eventually evaporates, in contrast to Sapphires "freezing"). The next day, at The Best Diner in the World, Ruby angrily shakes their table. Sapphire says that she will cool down eventually, causing Ruby to summon her gauntlet and smash the table onto its side. Steven leaves the diner, upset, and Ruby and Sapphire follow him out to see what is wrong. After realizing the effect of their conflict has on Steven, they make up and re-fuse into Garnet.
"Hit the Diamond"
A Ruby squadron arrives at the Barn, leading Garnet to unfuse so Ruby can get them to leave. Ruby nervously sneaks over and blends in with the other Rubies. She gets information by asking what the plan is. After finding out they are looking for the leader of the Earth mission, whom Ruby believes is Peridot, she tells the others that she will search the Barn. Ruby returns to the others, who are hiding in the barn, very anxiously. Sapphire calms her down and helps her out by suggesting she go back and telling the other Rubies that the Barn is a human home. Steven goes with Ruby to prove that the Barn is nothing but a human facility. Ruby tries to get them to leave once more, but Doc orders the Rubies to double check the Barn. Steven compromises by saying the Rubies can search the barn if they beat the "humans" in a game of baseball. During the game, Ruby pretends to be an unskilled player so the Rubies can lose, and she also flirts with Sapphire, causing the latter to lose focus. At the end of the game, Ruby encourages Sapphire until she finally hits the ball and wins the game for the Humans. Out of pure joy and pride, Garnet is accidentally formed, blowing the Crystal Gems' cover.
"Mindful Education"
When Garnet is teaching Stevonnie how to stay fused under stress, Ruby is shown to get frustrated, but then have Sapphire comfort her, teaching Steven and Connie that they have to work together to stay together.
"Three Gems and a Baby"
Fourteen years ago, Garnet de-fuses to show Steven, who she believes is a kind of fusion, how to unfuse, but Ruby and Sapphire re-fuse once baby Steven begins to cry due to missing Garnet.
"Gem Heist"
Ruby goes along with Sapphire's plan to disguise themselves in order to enter Pink Diamond's Zoo undetected. Ruby pretends to be Sapphire's personal Ruby and is the one that holds Steven's hands behind his back when the Gems pretend he is an offering for the zoo. Ruby claims that she left the gravity engine on the Roaming Eye so that the Gems have time to try and open up the zoo door without being noticed. When Holly Blue Agate leaves the area after talking about how great Blue Diamond is, Ruby becomes outraged because Blue Diamond rejected fusion, which is essentially her and Sapphire's love. When trying to open the zoo door, Ruby screams wildly, runs on the door itself (which leaves burn marks) and scratches the door.
"That Will Be All"
Ruby continues traveling with Sapphire and Pearl after Steven is placed into the Zoo. Inside of the Rose Quartz Bubble Room, Ruby holds Sapphire's hand when she begins to freeze up in front of Blue Diamond. She fuses with Sapphire, later on, to stop Holly Blue Agate from harming Steven and Greg.
"Now We're Only Falling Apart"
Garnet unfuses into Ruby and Sapphire upon hearing the revelation that Rose Quartz was actually Pink Diamond. Sapphire, furious at Ruby for not knowing, leaves in a fit of rage. While Steven and Pearl chase after Sapphire, Ruby and Amethyst stay behind at the temple. Upon returning, Steven, Pearl, and Sapphire learn that Ruby had decided to run away and had left a note for Sapphire.
"What's Your Problem?"
Steven and Amethyst travel around Beach City in search of Ruby. They pass out missing flyers all around the city and soon find out that Ruby is with Greg on Brooding Hill.
"The Question"
Ruby travels with Steven, Greg, and Amethyst in pursuit of becoming a cowboy, due to wanting to be free from being fused with Sapphire as Garnet. Amethyst shapeshifts into a horse so Ruby may ride her across the plains as she experiences her newfound independence. After everyone is asleep, Steven explains to Ruby that he saw how much fun she had, and apologizes to her for insisting she fuse with Sapphire. Ruby then replies that she was having fun, but deeply misses Sapphire and wishes she was there with them. The episode later ends with Ruby proposing to Sapphire, wanting their relationship to be different, instead of being together purely by choice alone.
"Made of Honor"
Ruby and Sapphire organize their wedding, practicing where and how it's going to be carried out, inviting many of the citizens of Beach City and the Gems. Sapphire mentions that she would like to have been able to invite old members of the Crystal Gems, who are now either shattered, corrupted, or forced into fusions and now bubbled. That drives Steven to free Bismuth, who reunites with her fellow Gems and makes two rings for the couple (a copper one for Ruby and a tin one for Sapphire[2]).
"Reunited"
Before the wedding begins, Ruby tells Sapphire not to cheat on seeing her wedding dress. When the ceremony starts, Ruby dashes through the altar excitedly rather than walking. After the two say their vows, they exchange the rings Bismuth had made for them, and Steven pronounces them as Garnet. They begin to kiss, fusing again.
"Together Alone"
Ruby and Sapphire are forced to split in order to attend the Era 3 Ball, so Ruby attends with the other Rubies, and Sapphire with the Sapphires. However, when Steven accidentally fuses with Connie, much to the outrage of the Diamonds, the two fuse again, becoming Garnet and defending Steven. They are immediately poofed by Yellow Diamond's electrokinesis.
"Change Your Mind"
Her gemstone was released by Steven from Yellow Diamond's bubble in her bubble chamber. She was later accidentally dropped into Homeworld's surface by Steven and picked back up by Rainbow Quartz 2.0 and fused for the first time with Steven and Sapphire's gemstone to form Sunstone.
Steven Universe: The Movie
She has a rather minor appearance. She gets brought back in System/BOOT.pearl final(3).Info and when Sapphire comes, they go offscreen. A few minutes later, Steven tries to cause a disaster, but Sapphire says he won't, and he doesn't. Instead, Spinel accidentally causes a disaster in which an anvil almost falls on Ruby; but Sapphire pushes her away, and they fuse. Ruby is not seen after that.
"Snow Day"
Upon unfusing from Alexandrite, Ruby participates in Steven Tag, in an effort to persuade Steven into having fun again like he used to. Ruby congratulates Sapphire on winning Steven Tag, and they fuse back into Garnet, shapeshifted as younger Steven.
"Together Forever"
Ruby and Sapphire split so they can teach separate classes for Little Homeworld. Ruby teaches scouting to Zebra Jasper, Onion, and Larimar, creating badges to award them for their endeavors. When Steven is conflicted about his feelings towards Connie, Ruby encourages Steven to propose to Connie, offering him a Proposal badge. Ruby and Sapphire are later described as "hopeless romantics" by Garnet, as they gave Steven bad advice.
"I Am My Monster"
Ruby briefly appears along with Sapphire when a Monster-Transformed Steven knocks them all back with a powerful roar that also causes Garnet to unfuse. When the Cluster attempts to hold Steven back, Ruby cries along with Sapphire from the thought of Steven staying as a monster forever if they can't reach out to him. After Connie lambastes the group and reminds them that Steven needs their help, Ruby and Sapphire regain hope and fuse into Garnet again.

Abilities
Ruby possesses standard Gem abilities. According to Garnet at the end of "Hit the Diamond", Ruby is smarter than the average Ruby.
Fusions
When fused with Sapphire, they form Garnet.
When fused with Sapphire and Amethyst, they form Sugilite.
When fused with Sapphire and Pearl, they form Sardonyx.
When fused with Sapphire, Pearl, and Amethyst, they form Alexandrite.
When fused with Sapphire, Pearl, Amethyst, and Rose Quartz, they form Obsidian.
When fused with two other Rubies, they form a larger Ruby.
When fused with Sapphire and Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Sunstone.
When fused with Sapphire, Pearl, Amethyst, and Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Obsidian.
Skillset
Gauntlet Proficiency: Through sheer anger and feeling the need to release it through violence, Ruby can summon a gauntlet[3] like Garnet's. Although only seen once, it is clear that Ruby possesses some knowledge of how to use it.
Superhuman Strength: Ruby seems to possess great strength, as she was able to shake the walls of her prison with a single punch, lift Sapphire with little effort in "Jail Break", and flip a diner booth table with relative ease in "Keystone Motel". As seen in the same episode, Ruby is dense enough to walk underwater.
Superhuman Agility: In "The Question" she repeatedly proved to be extremely agile and acrobatic.
Musical Ability: Greg taught Ruby how to play the acoustic guitar in "The Question". Within ten minutes, she was skilled enough to improvise a song about her current experiences.
Unique Abilities
Thermokinesis: Ruby can increase the temperature and generate heat. This is shown in "Keystone Motel" when her body gets so hot that it begins burning the carpet of the motel room and boils the pool to nothing but steam in a very short amount of time. It is shown to be related to Ruby's emotional state, as the ability manifested itself when she got furious in the aforementioned episode and when she felt infatuated in "The Answer", as she set the grass beneath her ablaze when Sapphire thanked her. When fused as Garnet, Ruby's pyrokinesis fuses with Sapphire's cryokinesis and forms Garnet's electrokinesis, as thunderstorms can result from the formation of masses of cold and warm air.
Pyrokinetic Touch: This ability allows Ruby to set fire to whatever she touches. As shown in "The Answer" and "Keystone Motel", she accidentally sets fire to the grass beneath her the minute she got flustered and the carpet when she became angry, respectively. The same occurred in "Reunited" when she excitedly walked down the stairs. In "The Question", Ruby proved she can use her pyrokinetic touch at will and while in a neutral state of mind to make a fire.
Fire Dash: Ruby can move at high speed by forming a fireball around herself, as shown during "Reunited".​​​​
Heat Resistance: Ruby has not demonstrated this ability, but it was confirmed that the only reason Garnet can swim in lava is by Ruby. She shares this power with Bismuth.

Trivia
Although she is not formally introduced until "Jail Break", her first appearance is in "Fusion Cuisine".
When Alexandrite is separated, her silhouette, along with Sapphire's, is noticed. The left of "Garnet" is seen as Ruby, and the right of "Garnet" is seen as Sapphire.
When asked if Ruby is blind (after Ruby said "I can't see!" in "Jail Break"), Joe Johnston merely stated that she was "used to being fused with Sapphire, and so, used to having two types of vision."[4]
Ruby possibly has her own room in the Crystal Temple, as the Temple Gate has a red gemstone and a blue gemstone that Garnet opens simultaneously.
Most of Garnet's sensitive side seems to come from Ruby; whenever Garnet cries, her tears fall from her right eye (the red-colored one) that represents Ruby: Ruby cried when she and Sapphire met again in "Jail Break" while Sapphire herself appeared to remain calm in "Keeping It Together" after meeting the Cluster Gems.
Ruby is the birthstone of Rebecca Sugar.
During times of great conflict of opinion, she and Sapphire can talk to each other individually through Garnet, as shown in "Keeping It Together" and "Keystone Motel".
The first hint of Ruby along with Sapphire was in the episode "Together Breakfast" when Garnet opens the door to her room. This shows two red and blue stones resembling gems light up creating an entrance for Garnet.
In "We Are the Crystal Gems", Ruby is shown to be cracking or holding her knuckles, a sign of toughness, or that she is ready to fight while Sapphire is holding her hands together, interlocking her fingers. This shows that she is calm, graceful and passionate. On the other hand, Ruby seems calmer than expected from her, and Sapphire more upbeat than usual, possibly indicating that being Garnet brings balance to their personalities.
Ruby's thermoregulation of directly raising the temperature opposes Sapphire's thermoregulation of lowering the temperature, representing their polar opposite personalities.
Ruby's ability to raise the temperature is somewhat of a pun, being that in "Keystone Motel", where Ruby is quite literally letting off steam, and acting like a "hothead". This is also shown when Sapphire says, "She'll eventually just burn herself out."
Although Ruby's gemstone is in her left palm, she is shown summoning her gauntlet on her right hand.
Ruby's gemstone cut is a square while Sapphire's is a triangle. While triangles are self-sustaining in that each side of a triangle supports the other two, squares are not (i.e. a free-formed square can be changed into a rhombus without stretching or contracting sides). This could be a metaphor for Ruby being the hotheaded counterpart to Sapphire, as she is shown to "collapse" easily as well.
Ruby's instrument has been confirmed to be "a crude waveform in between a square and a saw wave."[5]
In addition, her instrument was reverse-engineered from Garnet's as seen in "Keystone Motel".
Ruby's projection and gemstone design was the inspiration for the DVD cover of the Steven Universe Season 4 (Australian Set).
Ruby's gauntlet greatly resembles the anti-hero Hellboy's "Right Hand of Doom".
Currently, Ruby has the most known fusions out of all the Crystal Gems, with 6 (Garnet, Sugilite, Sardonyx, Alexandrite, Sunstone, and Obsidian)
"Hit the Diamond" marks Ruby's as well as Sapphire's first appearance outside of a StevenBomb.
Ruby's design is inspired by K.O.,[6] a character from Ian Jones Quartey's show, OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes, which also aired on Cartoon Network.
Despite the fact that she has been a Crystal Gem for 5,752 years, she is one of the only members (aside from the uncorrupted gems) that have not reformed with a star.
The ruby is closely associated with aspects such as vitality, life, passion, and fire, all of which can be symbolically linked to the color red.
This shows in Ruby's emotional temperaments and overall emotional/angry attitude as well as her strength.
It is said that rubies can over-stimulate people who are sensitive or irritable.

Ruby has a rich red stone in her left palm. It has a square facet, the front and back are symmetrical, and it has a light pink ring around it, which is usually hidden within her left hand, except when regenerating. It is a decahedron, specifically a truncated tetragonal dipyramid.

Appearance
Amethyst has a somewhat stout build common to Quartz Gems and is shorter than most of the characters, formerly rivaling Steven's height, though only by a couple of inches. She is about half the height of a "standard" Quartz Gem soldier, such as Jasper, due to remaining in the ground for an extra 500 years, which also gives her a somewhat stocky appearance. Her skin is bright lilac, her eyes are dark indigo, and her thick, messy hair is pale lavender and goes down to her ankles, with a large bang that obscures her left eye. She also has plump lips, and a small, upturned nose. Her gemstone is located on her chest, and the bottom half of it was usually covered by her shirt.
First Form
In her first form, Amethyst was born and raised as a part of the Kindergarten. After being struck by the Gem Rejuvenator in Steven Universe: The Movie, Amethyst's body reverts to its base form: she takes on an almost mannequin-like appearance, with clear joint-lines at her elbows, wrists, knees, and ankles, and her feet are bare and featureless. She wears a dark purple leotard, and like her 1980s form, she has short hair and appears shorter in height.
18th Century Regeneration
In “Buddy's Book” and in a painting shown in “So Many Birthdays”, Amethyst appeared with the same height and hairstyle as her current self. She wore a dark mauve jacket with white buttons and shoulder epaulets, lighter mauve leggings, small black boots, and a mauve and black hat with a small white star in the middle.
1980s-90s Regeneration
In "Story for Steven", "We Need to Talk", and "Greg the Babysitter", which were flashbacks to the 1980s-1990s, Amethyst had short hair, and she appeared a little smaller compared to her current and previous appearance. She wore a mauve tank top with a frilly-like bottom, a black shawl, baggy black pants, and white boots.
Debut
From "Gem Glow" to "Reformed", Amethyst wore a mauve, oversized, off-shoulder tank top (as confirmed in Guide to the Crystal Gems) with a black bra underneath. She also wore black leggings with star-shaped cutouts on the knees, with a tear above the left star, and small, pointed, white boots.
Second Regeneration
From "Reformed" to "Crack the Whip", the colors of Amethyst's tank top and leggings are reversed: her tank top is now black with two small slots on each side towards the bottom, and her leggings are mauve with black stars on the knees. She fixes her right shoulder strap, keeping it on her shoulder rather than off (a feature Pearl was happy to see changed). Her boots are still white.
Third Regeneration
From "Crack the Whip" to "Together Alone", Amethyst's clothes’ color palette remained the same but had been swapped once more: her tank top became off-white with a jagged hem, black leggings (similar to her debut) with dark mauve stars on them, and her ankle boots became the same dark mauve hue. 
Current Regeneration
As of "Change Your Mind", Amethyst now wears a black tank top that it is torn open at the chest to reveal her gemstone, medium gray shorts with black stars on each leg and torn white fabric at the bottoms, and her boots become white again. It's worth noting that this is Amethyst's first known permanent form (aside from her very first form) to fully display her Gem, possibly because of her newfound self-esteem.
Other
In the "We Are the Crystal Gems" short and "Three Gems and a Baby" which flashback to Steven being a baby and toddler, Amethyst still had the same leggings and boots she wore from "Gem Glow" to "Reformed", except she had an off-shoulder, long-sleeved mauve shirt that exposed both bra straps and there was no tear above the star on the left knee of her leggings.

Personality
Amethyst is fun-loving, full of laughter, and generally carefree to a fault. Although it isn't necessary for her, she enjoys eating and sleeping and is frequently seen doing so. She tends to indulge Steven more than the other Gems and partakes in human activities with him, though she shows concern for his well-being in times of more severe danger. Amethyst loves a good fight, something that manifests itself in her wrestling persona, the "Purple Puma," where she willingly masquerades as a hated wrestler purely for the fun of it and to relieve stress from Pearl and Garnet's constant orders. She often loves watching fights and will loudly vocalize or cheer when she sees a conflict in progress, egging the competitors on, including the feuds between Pearl and Greg, between Pearl and Peridot, and Steven and Garnet eagerly while eating popcorn.
Loud and a lover of pranks, Amethyst is easily amused and very impulsive. She is bad-mannered, untidy, and a bit lazy; much to Pearl's detriment, but still means well. Her unwillingness to let others throw out the junk in her room marks her as somewhat of a hoarder. These tendencies surface in "Maximum Capacity", where she is unwilling to let Greg throw anything away in his storage unit. However, Amethyst is very observant and perceptive of other people's feelings: She tries to reassure Steven in "An Indirect Kiss" when he was worried about her as she fell apart, understood why Pearl kept fixing the Communication Hub in "Cry for Help", and that Garnet won't forgive Pearl unless the two directly talk it out in "Friend Ship".
Because of her origins in the Prime Kindergarten and its dark legacy, Amethyst harbors a tremendous amount of self-loathing, which is also fueled by her perception that she is inadequate when compared to Garnet or Pearl. This leaves her feeling out of place among the Crystal Gems, thinking that she doesn't belong with Gems of their caliber when she was created by the very thing they sought to destroy. She thought that when Steven learned of her past, he would think less of her. In "On the Run", Amethyst gets into a vicious fight with Pearl over the belief that she sees Amethyst as a parasite, though she calms down after Pearl comforts her. She shows her difficulty at thinking for herself and worries about Steven's and Garnet's approval in "Reformed", regenerating multiple times in the episode with new forms that were all rushed or based on what she thinks Garnet and Steven will approve of.
Amethyst has an admittedly low opinion of herself and a strong self-loathing that she usually keeps buried under her boisterousness. When her self-doubt takes effect, it makes her act cold, reckless, stubborn, and starts looking for a fight. In "Cry for Help", she sings "Tower of Mistakes" due to feeling inferior to Sardonyx and defends Pearl for deceiving Garnet to fuse with her due to both being weaker than her. In "Too Far" she was offended when Peridot states that she is a "defective" quartz, meaning she came out wrong. This attitude gets worse in "Crack the Whip" and "Steven vs. Amethyst", where her sense of inferiority is focused as Jasper easily defeats and poofs before she sees that Steven surpasses her. This causes her to start fighting with him too, though it was only after a fight with Steven that she begins to feel better. In "Beta", she still shows an obsession with finding and beating Jasper which leads her to recklessly challenge her alone, all the while denying her friends' help and encouragement. "Earthlings" shows Amethyst come to terms with herself due to Steven's encouragement, comfort, and stating that they are the same, leading them to fuse into Smoky Quartz. After the battle, she seemingly returns to her usual self, exasperatingly saying that she didn't want to do anything for a month. In "Gem Heist", Amethyst is still shown to be afraid of encountering other Amethysts from Homeworld in Pink Diamond's Zoo. In "That Will Be All", however, it turns out that these Amethysts are from Earth and that they remember her as 8XM, befriending her and making pranks at her side. In "Tiger Philanthropist", she is now comfortable with her self-esteem and no longer needs wrestling as an output of dominance and power.
"What's Your Problem?" shows how much she has matured as she tells Steven she refuses to fall apart on him, with Steven even remarking how mature she has become much to her dismay.
Steven Universe Future shows she has come to understand herself and has found a purpose helping other gems find out their purpose by talking to them and understanding what they want to do, something she has shown to be extremely good at.

Abilities
Amethyst possesses standard Gem abilities and traits. After witnessing Amethyst's abilities in "Too Far", Peridot claims that Amethyst "can do everything a normal quartz can do" despite coming out short. This implies that her stature doesn't inhibit her strength.

Fusions
When fused with Pearl, they form Opal.
When fused with Ruby and Sapphire, they form Sugilite.
When fused with Ruby, Sapphire, and Pearl, they form Alexandrite.
When fused with Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Smoky Quartz.
When fused with Ruby, Sapphire, Pearl, and Rose Quartz, they form Obsidian.
When fused with Ruby, Sapphire, Pearl, and Steven, they form the hybrid fusion Obsidian.
Natural Abilities
Enhanced Regeneration: Amethyst can normally regenerate very quickly and with great variation, but this has been shown to backfire, as regenerating so quickly can make her new body extremely unstable.
Enhanced Endurance: In "Laser Light Cannon", Amethyst readily volunteered to get thrown at the Red Eye by Garnet in order to punch or body slam into it as an attempt to destroy it, persevering long after it was already proved to be a futile act.
Skillset
Flail/Whip Proficiency: Amethyst is very skilled with her whip, which mixes very well with her immense physical prowess. She can throw her whip to entangle or bind her target from afar. Offensively, Amethyst uses her whip to lash at opponents and cause damage that is strong enough to easily split a dumpster in half. Occasionally, she uses her whip to grab onto objects or lift them and throw them at the enemy. It is implied by Bismuth that her whip is unusual among Quartzes. As of "Bismuth", Amethyst's whip has been upgraded to a morning star-inspired flail.
Slicing: Amethyst's lashes are precise enough to cut through solid materials, such as metal, in a clean line. In "Too Far", her whip cleanly sliced through an Injector.
Whiplash: Amethyst can send waves of violet energy along with her whip or whips, creating an immense explosion.
Shapeshifting: While most Gems are capable of shapeshifting, Amethyst is particularly skilled at it, specializing in transformations. She may use this skill to enhance her unarmed fighting or take on more bizarre forms depending on the task at hand. Some of her forms include several random to lethal animals, a fully-functional helicopter to transport others, her wrestling alter-ego the "Purple Puma," etc. However, Amethyst cannot shapeshift when she is under a lot of pressure, as revealed in "Secret Team".[1] There is also a limit on the amount of time she can stay shifted before having to revert.
Martial Arts: Amethyst is the Crystal Gem least likely to rely on her weapon in combat, relying instead on her martial arts skills and enhanced physical powers to deal with minor threats. She also is a skilled wrestler, easily defeating all her human challengers in the Beach City Underground Wrestling league. Her fighting style can sometimes be considered reckless and foolhardy, knocking her and the other Crystal Gems down after she used her whip to pull the Centipeetle Mother towards her in "Monster Buddies".
Musical Talent: Amethyst knows how to play the drums, as revealed in "Steven and the Stevens".
Unique Abilities
Spin Dash: Amethyst can rapidly roll into a ball-like shape to attack enemies. While powerful, it is smaller than Jasper's version.
Homing Attack: Amethyst can home in on nearby enemies while spin dashing.
Whiplash Spin Dash: Amethyst can summon both of her whips, ignite them with violet fiery energy and then spin dash on top of them, giving a violet aura to her spin dash. When she makes contact with something, it causes a big violet explosion.
Hair-Blade: Amethyst can use her hair to slash at an enemy with such potency it severs others. This includes the claw of Bixbite.
Enhanced Digestion: Amethyst can eat materials (including glass, plastic, paper, etc.) and can digest it without getting sick or disgusted. However, she was food poisoned by a burrito in "So Many Birthdays".
Fire burp: Amethyst can burp fire after drinking cooking oil, as revealed in the episode "Gem Harvest".
Clandestine Abilities
Levitation: While controlled by White Diamond, Amethyst has the ability to, indirectly, suspend her body in midair.
White Burst: While controlled by White Diamond (probably via the same), Amethyst is capable of shooting, through her eyes, a white energy beam equivalent to White Diamond aura, in which it can also control, mentally, the affected gems.
Attack the Light
Crystal Whip: Amethyst uses her whip to attack all enemies for low damage. This move can hit enemies in the air. It uses 3 Star Points.
Dual Strike: Amethyst uses her whip to slash at the enemies multiple times for low damage each hit. It takes 4 Star Points.
Purple Puma: Amethyst transforms into Purple Puma and initiates a trigger sequence where the player has to tap when the bar is in the purple star zone for more damage. This move does medium damage, lowers attack, and takes 4 Star Points. When upgraded, it can break shields.
Spin Dash: Amethyst does her spin dash and deals more damage the more the player taps. This move does high damage and takes 5 Star Points. It can knock a normal enemy out of battle when upgraded.
Fuse: Amethyst fuses with Pearl and Garnet to form Alexandrite and smashes the enemies with a fist multiple times for lots of damage. This move lowers attack and defense, takes 9 Star Points, and requires all Gems to have full harmony to use. Anyone of the Crystal Gems can activate this, except Steven.

History Pre-Series
Before emerging, other recently-made Amethysts in the Prime Kindergarten waited for Amethyst (or as they called her, 8XM) to emerge, but were quickly shooed away after being told she could catch up with them later. Amethyst emerged approximately five hundred years later, by which time all the Homeworld Gems had fled Earth. Before being found by Rose Quartz and the others, Amethyst's life consisted of playing with rocks in the Prime Kindergarten. She lived with the other Gems for thousands of years after being found by them, and appears to be knowledgeable on some, but not all, of Gem history most likely taught to her by the others. During Amethyst's time with the Crystal Gems, she learned how to fuse, most likely to have formed Opal, Sugilite, and possibly Alexandrite. Amethyst grew a close relationship with Rose, describing her to be the person who was always there for her. Over the years, Amethyst poofed a lot due to her clumsiness, as she describes thousands of years later to Rose's son Steven.
Although Amethyst lives at the Crystal Temple, she still visits the Prime Kindergarten, and met Buddy Buddwick on one of her trips back. Buddy shows Amethyst the map that Pearl drew up for him, and tells her that he's an explorer. Amethyst tells him that he's not really discovering anything, but instead walking in someone else's footsteps. When Buddy is upset by this, Amethyst tells him that he should try finding the sand castle in the Desert, since it's never in the same place twice. Buddy is then on his way, and Amethyst tells him to come back any time, but not too much. Also around this time, Amethyst and the other Gems helped sailors fend off their boat from shark infested water, as seen in an old Gem painting. Amethyst, specifically, is pulling one of the sailors out of the water.
Hundreds of years later, Amethyst met Greg Universe when he visited the Temple in search of Rose. Shape-shifted as an owl, Amethyst flies to Pearl and tells her that that a long-haired human was talking to her about Rose. Amethyst is excited by Greg's appearance, telling him that she likes his long hair. Amethyst gives him the nickname music man after finding out he's a musician.
Another day, Greg and Rose are singing a duet together while the Gems play background instruments. Amethyst played the drums, which Greg promised her Pop-Pop if she did. When Greg is later trying to learn a fusion dance, Amethyst is shown to be experienced. Amethyst is happy to see Rose and Greg together. However, the more time Rose and Greg spent together, the more Amethyst began to change her feelings. Amethyst became hurt that Rose started seeing Greg more than her, and blamed Greg for this. Amethyst never lashed out at Greg though, and the two were close friends. They were known to watch the TV show Li'l Butler for days without leaving the house.
When Rose and Greg have Steven, Amethyst has trouble adjusting to the fact that Rose is gone. Garnet has to continuously explain to her that Steven is a human baby and not Rose. During Steven's first winter, Amethyst and the other Gems visit Greg to give presents for Steven. Amethyst's gift are adult diapers, which Greg promptly points out are too big for him. Amethyst tells Steven to shape-shift bigger so that they fit. When Steven gets excited, his Gem begins to glow, leading Amethyst to believe that Rose is trying to shape-shift back into her old self. The Gems kidnap Steven to try and figure out why his Gem was glowing when Greg is unable to. Amethyst tries to show "Rose" how to shape-shift, not understanding why Rose would be shape-shifted for months, longer than Amethyst was shape-shifted into a toilet. Once the Gems realize that Steven is not Rose, Amethyst accepts the fact that from now on, everything has to be about him.

Trivia
Her "Spin Dash" attack, which she shares with Jasper, may be a reference to the popular video game character, Sonic the Hedgehog, whose main form of attack is the Spin Dash, which is rolling into a ball and dashing into enemies. She also shares several personality traits with Sonic, such as being a free spirit and having a relaxed demeanor.
Amethyst's design changed the least from the Pilot to the series besides Steven. These changes include:
Removal of a silver ring around the gemstone. As seen in "Reformed", her gemstone still has a ring around it. However, it is not visible unless she is regenerating, as the ring is usually hidden under her skin. It's also more light lavender in color.
Her top changed from long-sleeved to strap-like.
Circle-shaped holes in her leggings changed to star-shaped.
Removal of a barrette.
Boots changed from fold-over to regular.
Removal of a fanny pack, though it makes an appearance in "Beach Party" and in Steven's dream in "Chille Tid".
Her skin tone is lightened.
Her hairstyle is cleaner.
Her gemstone facet changed to a hexagonal facet.
At New York Comic-Con, Rebecca Sugar revealed that Amethyst's designs and color palette are based on Adventure Time's Lumpy Space Princess, due to her earlier work on that show.
Amethyst's original outfit did not feature the classic Crystal Gem insignia seen on Pearl and Garnet, but rather has cutouts of stars on her knees. This is likely because she initially wasn't as a Crystal Gem, but rather found at the Kindergarten by the others and adopted into their fold. As a result, she might have altered her default outfit to represent the Crystal Gems.
Amethyst blushes dark purple.
Amethyst's instrument is an electric drum kit, described as "loose and wild."[4]
Additionally, her expanded musical palette includes electric bass and some of her synths.
According to Rebecca Sugar, Amethyst's dancing/fighting style is based on dance hall and club dancing.[5]
Amethyst's reason for protecting Earth is because it is her birthplace and the only home she has been able to have.
Her lines from the extended opening theme are, "I will fight for the world I was made in! The Earth is everything I've ever known!"
In "Three Gems and a Baby", it is revealed that when Steven was a baby, after seeing his gem glow for the first time, Amethyst believed that Steven was just Rose but shapeshifted into the form of a baby.
Of all the Gems seen thus far, Amethyst shapeshifts the most.
Of the four Crystal Gems, Amethyst usually ends up getting hurt and having to retreat to her gemstone to regenerate the most.[6]
Amethyst is the only Gem to have to retreat into her gemstone because of a Corrupted Gem. Pearl was stabbed by Holo-Pearl, and Garnet was hit by the Gem Destabilizer from Jasper
Most of Amethyst's fusions are not fully stable.
Opal unfuses if any disagreement occurs between Pearl and Amethyst. As of "Log Date 7 15 2" though, Opal seems to be much more stable than the past, being able to fuse with ease.
Sugilite's personality combines the worst of her and Garnet's personalities, being very dangerous and reckless.
Alexandrite is the most unstable, due to the several conflicts between all of her fusees.
Smoky Quartz, by contrast, is the most stable of her fusions, which shows the close and kindred relationship Steven and Amethyst have.
All of her fusions have extra limbs, her tousled hair, the star-shaped cutouts on her legs (except for Opal), and her voluminous lips.
Amethyst is the first Crystal Gem to have more than one on-screen regeneration.
Amethyst has only bubbled another Gem once on-screen which was when she bubbled Jasper in "Earthlings".
Amethyst is at most 5,500 years old, as that was when Earth's Kindergarten was shut down.[7] She is about 500 years younger than all the other Gems developed in the Kindergarten, as estimated by Peridot in "Too Far".
She didn't take part in the battle in the Gem Battlefield, which took place 5,300 years ago.[8]
Amethyst lived for some time in the Kindergarten after emerging, spending her time playing with different rocks she had adopted as her "friends." In "Too Far", Peridot says that Amethyst must have emerged when the Kindergarten no longer functioned, suggesting that she was most likely alone for the remainder of her time there.[9]
In "Story for Steven" and "We Need to Talk", Amethyst acts in many ways like an animal or a feral child. She mostly walks on all fours, is very invasive and inquisitive, rips through a bag of Pop-Pop as a dog would, and even goes to fetch a stick when Garnet throws it.
Amethyst once tried to flush herself down the toilet, as she tells Peridot after she attempts to do it herself.[10]
Amethyst doesn't care what food she eats or where she eats it from, as in "Reformed" where she is wanting to add engine oil to her meal. She enjoys the feeling of digestion.[11]
She also enjoys urinating in the ocean.[12]
Amethyst shapeshifts herself a digestive system to eat.[13]
Amethyst can speak Spanish.[14]
Amethyst is loosely based on Rebecca Sugar's friend, Valerie Ang, from college.
Amethyst stones are often associated with the Greek/Roman god Dionysus/Bacchus, the god of wine, intoxication, madness, and agriculture. This could be the reason behind her impulsive and self-indulgent nature.
Rebecca Sugar has revealed in an interview that Amethyst's room is the closest to her actual lifestyle.[15]
Rebecca Sugar stated at the Argentina Comic-Con that she wants to tell the story of Amethyst while she still lived in the Kindergarten. This was later confirmed in Steven Universe: The Movie when Amethyst sings about her origin in the Kindergarten.
Amethyst has reformed the most out of all the Crystal Gems while on-screen, reforming six times.

Amethyst's gemstone is located on her chest, featuring a hexagonal facet. It is a tetra-decahedron, specifically a truncated hexagonal dipyramid. Its overall shape is circular. As seen in "Reformed" the front and back are symmetrical, and it has a silver ring around it, which is usually hidden inside her body unless she is regenerating.

Appearance
Connie is a young Indian-American[1] girl with dark brown skin and, a slim figure, and is slightly taller than Steven. She has a prominent nose with black eyes with thick eyebrows and has dark brown puffy hair that varies in length.
From her debut to "Dewey Wins", Connie's hair was waist-length. At some point following her fallout with Steven in the aforementioned episode and prior to their reconciliation in "Kevin Party", she had her hair cut down to a chin-length bob and added bangs. Following the two-year time-skip between "Change Your Mind" and Steven Universe: The Movie, her hair has since regrown to shoulder-length while retaining her bangs, and she wears part of it back with hair clips.
Connie wore a pair of magenta glasses with rose-colored lenses until Steven's healing saliva fixed her eyesight in "An Indirect Kiss". She continued to wear the empty frames until the events of "Nightmare Hospital", no longer carrying them afterward.
Connie is usually seen in a variety of different outfits and dresses, including light blue, green, and white clothing: In the first intro, she wears a white-mint green dress, a sunhat, and peach-colored boots with no socks. In the second intro, she wears a white, button-down, collared tank top, gray button-up shorts, her pink glow bracelet, and peach sneakers with white bottoms, laces, and socks. Since "Kevin Party", Connie has started wearing a more stylish and slightly mature style of dress.
During training, Connie often wears a purple fighting outfit with a red bandana around her waist. She is barefoot, and her arms are covered with white gauze. On missions involving outer space travel, Connie usually wears her father's pale brown jacket, which has fur inside and a patch on the left sleeve. In "The New Crystal Gems", Connie temporarily wears Steven's outfit of a salmon-pink star shirt and blue jeans.
As of the movie, Connie is now taller in height, almost the same height as Steven, with slightly thicker limbs and a differently-angled nose. She also wears a white blouse and blue shorts. Later in the film, after attending space camp, she wore a blue flight suit.
Throughout Future, Connie appears in a variety of clothes, most notably a white (or light orange) blouse with denim shorts and sneakers.

Personality
Connie is a curious girl who is attentive to detail, preparing herself for future events such as the upcoming school year or a mission in the wilderness, but can get distracted if she finds something more interesting like reading Buddy Buddwick's journal or spending time with magical company. Her hobbies include reading, violin playing, and formerly tennis playing. Connie is usually level-headed but sensible, convincing Steven about his obsession to certain topics and let them go such in "Beach City Drift", but she feels guilty to the point of notably changing her behavior, including hitting an innocent student in "Mindful Education". Learning that some things are natural, she decides to confront her emotions by making amends, clearing her mind and understanding not to let her emotions cloud her thoughts by keeping them in. She passes this knowledge onto Steven, assuring him he had to be honest about how bad his feelings were so he could move on. "New Crystal Gems" shows Connie's leadership skills when she told Peridot and Lapis to be themselves and organized their efforts to fix the damage they did. "Change Your Mind" brings out this aspect of her personality, as she helps Steven convince Blue and Yellow to ease up on their stifling rules and traditions so they would try to convince White Diamond to do the same.
Connie has grown used to the strange dynamic of her friendship with Steven despite her initial uncertainty of it, reacting passively awed and only comments that she loves hanging out at his place when the Gems destroy one of Peridot's robonoids in front of her in "Marble Madness". She can be a bit deadpan at times, joking about cutting off Steven's hand and in that same instance quickly understands that by poking/tickling Steven she could provoke a reaction from Rose's Secret Armory in "Lion 2: The Movie". "The New Crystal Gems" demonstrates her eagerness to leap into action and adventure, asking Steven to wait for her so she can go into space with him, though this fails as he and the Gems had to leave immediately or risk losing track of Blue Diamond and his father forever. "Dewey Wins" displays an emotionally vulnerable side and a sense of integrity for Connie, who, while genuinely happy to have Steven back safely, is also deeply hurt by his choice to give himself up to Homeworld, leaving her and everyone else worried over his fate while also breaking his promise to her that they would always be a team. She becomes upset when he tries to downplay the situation and disregards her feelings (possibly to avoid facing his own and the harsh reality of the situation for the time being) and decided to take some time away from him so the two could process their respective feelings about the incident alone, remaining silent towards him for a few weeks, until they eventually reconciled in "Kevin Party".
Originally shy and introverted, Connie rarely stayed in one place for long due to her parents' lifestyle and thus had been unable to form lasting friendships, which left her frequently feeling lonely. Her parents were very strict and didn't allow her to participate in common childhood activities, such as eating donuts or anything with trans fats and organize her daily activities. By this time, tennis was the only thing that she remotely enjoys in her life. This attitude had led her to flat-out lie about Steven's non-nuclear family, due to paranoia at how her parents may react. Despite her obedience to her parents, she wasn't above exploiting loopholes, such as not buying snacks at a theater and instead of bringing them from Steven's home. She ate a donut when they weren't present in "Crack the Whip". Connie's friendship with Steven eventually gives her more confidence, eventually standing up to her mother about her strict upbringing and rules in "Nightmare Hospital", even revealing her involvement in magical affairs. She isn't afraid to barge into the Beach House while shouting "Surprise!" and have around Beach City with Amethyst and Steven, showing how comfortable she has gotten around the Gems. "Kevin Party" shows nearly full-circle just how far she has grown as a person, laughing and talking with other party guests, something she would never have been able to do at the beginning of the series. Her more carefree attitude and comfort towards Steven when he feels he had made everyone miserable by abiding by Homeworld's conformities and traditions to impress White Diamond in "Together Alone" caused her to convince him to dance much to his reservation, an inverse of their usual personalities and actions in the episode "Alone Together", which leads to them accidentally fusing into Stevonnie and unintentionally causing an uproar that winds up ruining the ball. This continues in "Escapism" when she consoles a despondent Steven over their consequent imprisonment and the Crystal Gems' poofing and inadvertently inspires him to use his psychic abilities to call for help on Earth.
"Sworn to the Sword" shows a more confident and aggressive side to Connie's personality when she learns sword fighting. Due to Pearl's negative reinforcement, she began to display a reckless side, but this was quickly put out by Steven. It highlights her strong feelings for beloved ones through her dedication to becoming a knight for Steven. "Gem Hunt" continues to shown her confidence and dedication to the Crystal Gems in how she pushes her to split up to hunt the Gem monsters and is the one to lead when she and Steven hunt the second monster through the forest, while respecting and obeying Pearl. Despite all her training and preparedness, Connie froze during an encounter with one of the Gem monsters they are hunting, choosing to call Pearl via Steven's walkie-talkie in the end. She later confides in Steven and Amethyst about freezing during her first mission in the next episode, causing Amethyst to tell her she should stop overthinking things and follow her instincts in battle, just adapting to win. She takes Amethyst's words to heart as she fares far better when the two of them along with Steven and Lion encounter Jasper and her two Gem monsters, bravely confronting her and prevent her from shattering Amethyst as Stevonnie. After Amethyst regenerates, she tells her she was right about how she should follow her instincts. In "Reunited" she has grown as a fighter, leaping into action and tries to attack Blue Diamond with Lion to free them when the rest of the Crystal Gems are incapacitated by Blue's pathokinesis attack, continuing to fight alongside them even her sword was broken.
Steven Universe: The Movie, taking place two years after the end of the fifth season, shows how much Connie's feelings for Steven have grown, as shown at the start of the movie, she waits for him to return from Homeworld and kisses him on the cheek before leaving for space camp, and is quick to return on Lion after learning of the danger posed by Spinel. She later helps the other Gems save Beach City's citizens from the poison from Spinel's Injector. During this time, she expresses concern for Steven during his final clash with Spinel, especially after the battle causes the Injector to explode, and relieved to find him alive and safe in the aftermath.
"Bismuth Casual", Connie's first major appearance in Steven Universe Future, shows full-circle how far Connie has come since her introduction, as she is revealed to have made friends outside of Steven and is shown to be somewhat close to them. However, she also makes it clear that she still considers Steven her best friend, as shown when, after he expresses his fears about them drifting apart, she reaffirms their bond by fusing with him and winning a best-skater contest as Stevonnie.
"Together Forever" and "Growing Pains" both show the depth of Connie's maturity. In the former episode, after her brief date with Steven, despite being geniunely touched by his romantic gestures (a picnic in the spot they first met each other and a song expressing his desire to always be with her), she turns down his proposal that they marry and live as Stevonnie permanently both due to their young ages and her desire to retain her individuality, while also insisting that they have plenty of time before they take such a huge step in their relationship. In the latter episode, she checks in on Steven to see how he is holding up in the aftermath, and, after witnessing his powers going out of control, persuades him to have a medical check up by her mother, while also notifying his father of the situation. When Steven's powers go completely haywire after recalling his failed proposal and he blows up at her that he can't be around her at the moment, she calmly tells Steven she will be there for him when he's ready, showing growing concern over Steven's deteriorating mental state while also keeping her distance from him until he is ready to talk about it.
The final three episodes show how much Connie's leadership abilities have developed and how deep her love for Steven runs. "Everything's Fine" shows her expressing concern for him after he dodges her questions about his condition and unexpectedly cuts off their first contact since the events at the hospital, and then visits his home and tries to help Steven's family in an intervention for him. While she is shocked by some of Steven's revelations (him not telling the Gems about going to the hospital, shattering Jasper, and nearly doing the same to White Diamond) and eventual meltdown and transformation into a Gem Kaiju, she nonetheless remains determined to help him. "I Am My Monster" shows Connie taking charge (similar to how she did back in "The New Crystal Gems") after everyone (Greg, the Crystal Gems, the Diamonds, and Spinel) starts to break down and blame themselves for Steven's transformation, citing that while it very well may be at least partly their fault, now is the time for them to pull together and help Steven just as he has always helped them, instead of moping about and feeling sorry for themselves for failing to before. Later, as everyone, even the Cluster, embraces Steven with love, she is the last to do so, promising that she and everyone else will take care of Steven just as he has always done with them, before sealing the deal with a kiss, which finally reverts him back to normal. She then looks over Steven along with everyone else as he wakes up and emotionally breaks down. In "The Future", taking place a few months later, Connie has seemingly entered an official relationship with Steven, with them making plans to see each other while he travels around the country and (possibly) finds a place to settle down permanently and she continues her college plans, and then sharing their first on-screen kiss just before he leaves Beach City.

Abilities
Natural Abilities
Strength: Connie has impressive strength for a girl her size, being able to lift and carry Steven when he was weakened from having his gem removed.
Skillset
Swordsmanship: As of "Sworn to the Sword", Connie has become skilled in the art of sword fighting with Pearl as her mentor. She can fight swiftly in light attack or with power in heavy attacks. This allows her rapidly perform several hits, as well as a counter or simply block them. Due to being ambidextrous, she can fight with equal skill with either hand. Her prowess is enough to temporarily hold her own against Gems like Topaz.
Tag-team combat: Due to the close bond they share, Connie can coordinate her swordplay perfectly with Steven's shield techniques, such as fighting back-to-back to being defended and attack simultaneously or being catapulted from his shield for a powerful lunge attack.
Wide Intellect: Connie is shown to be very intelligent for her age, knowing a lot about boats from observation and reading very hard books, both fictional and educational, which give her an extensive vocabulary. She can write backward, seen in the short amount of time it took her to write "Harpoon Gun" on a bubble's inside. Her analytical skills allow her to find loopholes in her parents' many rules, notice and remember important details, and make perfectly timed questions in regards to the Gems' strange situations. Steven Universe Future shows that Connie's intelligence and studying are paying off as she is going to cram school and getting ready to enter college early.
Survival Skills: Having prepared herself from a book about it 20 times, Connie has very impressive survival abilities in the wilderness. She has adopted these skills, perfectly able to locate a spot to hide from the Gem Monsters or make a healthy Vitamin C-rich tea out of pine needles.
Hand-to-Hand Combat: In addition to her swordsmanship, Connie possesses some hand-to-hand combat skills, presumably through her combat training under Pearl. She is able to grab a fellow student at her school by the arm and throw him to the ground, breaking his arm in the process.
Heightened Reflexes: Connie's reflexes have been honed to such an extent that she reacts to a perceived threat before she knows what she is doing, attacking a fellow student who bumped into her without realizing it until after the act.
Musical Talent: At her mother's insistence, Connie practices violin playing on a daily basis. She can play the instrument and sing at the same time, as shown in "Mirror Gem."
Tennis Proficiency: Connie is shown to play tennis in "Lion 2: The Movie", which later translates her prowess into sword fighting.
Save the Light
Slash: Connie rushes towards her target and attacks them with several hits from her sword.
Protect: Connie stands in front of an ally and blocks all damage and counter-attacks.
Sword Storm: Connie gives several strikes against a single enemy dealing heavy damage.
Weaponry
Rose's Sword (formerly): Bismuth's "finest piece of work", capable to easily destroy the physical form of a Gem, but unable to shatter the gemstone itself. Its design allows it to both cut and thrust efficiently. She also uses Rose's scabbard. In "Nightmare Hospital", the sword and its scabbard are given to Connie by Steven because she is learning how to sword-fight. Since pleading her mother to change her "No Swords" rule, took Steven to follow her to work to secretly obtain the sword, and convince her mother after saving her from the Cluster Gem patients, Connie has used the weapon in all subsequent appearances, using it in combat situations and during her sparring matches. Despite its immense size, she is seen comfortably carrying the sword on her back and drawing it over her shoulder. It is unknown if this is due to the sword's magical properties or if Pearl's training helped her achieve a level of strength fit to use it. In "Reunited", Rose's Sword was broken by Blue Diamond. The piece including the hilt was eventually given to Steven or the Gems and placed on a display in Steven's house.
Connie's Sword: As of "Change Your Mind", Bismuth gave Connie a specially-forged sword for her. The sword features a golden pommel, a purple hilt, a gold star emblem at the blade's base, an aqua chappe and a crystalline pink blade. It has enough strength to cause visible damage to the Diamond Mech.
Fusions
When fused with Steven, they take on the personality and form of Stevonnie. Via this fusion, Connie is theoretically able to fuse with full Gems.[2] Stevonnie is the first known fusion between a human and a Gem.

History Pre-Series
One year before the events of the episode, "Bubble Buddies", Connie is seen attending a parade in Beach City. Steven saw Connie drop her bracelet at the parade, and decided to keep it in his freezer so he could return it to her the next time he saw her.

Trivia
Kat Morris created Connie's character.[4]
According to a sketch in Steven Universe: Art & Origins, her name was originally supposed to be Priyanka, which was later repurposed into her mother's name.
Her surname, Maheswaran, means "Lord of the Universe" in Hindi and is traditionally a Tamil first name.[5]
This may be a reference to Steven.
Connie (or at least her family) is Shaivite as seen by the surname Maheswaran (Mahesh is the Hindu God Shiva, a member of the Trimurti (Brahma, Vishnu, and Mahesh). She might be Tamilian, but her caste is unknown.
Given that Steven's birthday is in August, Connie's birthday would be somewhere in November.
Connie's outfit and fighting style were inspired by Kalaripayattu.
She wields a sword resembling the Khanda, a sword typically used in the style.
Her hairstyle is a braid typically worn by female Kalaripayattu practitioners.
In the episode "Sworn to the Sword", Connie is seen holding her sword with her right hand during training; but uses her left hand when she fights Pearl with Steven.
According to Rebecca Sugar, if Connie were a Gem, she would be a teal Gem, as she has the diplomatic skills of blue Gems, but she also is able to take action, so she would be a Gem that would be between blue and green, color-wise.[6]
Despite saying her family moves around a lot, she has kept the same home for well over three years as of Steven Universe Future.
In "Nightmare Hospital", it is revealed that she hates the punishment abacus, which is what her parents use to calculate the length of punishments for her.
In "Winter Forecast", Connie says "itadakimasu", a Japanese word said before eating. She has stated that her father travels, so Connie may know more than one language. In reality, Connie's voice actress, Grace Rolek, is of Japanese descent.
At some point following her fallout with Steven in the "Dewey Wins" and before their reconciliation in "Kevin Party", Connie cut or had someone cut her waist-length hair down to a chin-length bob with bangs. According to Grace Rolek, she may have done this as a way of relieving herself of some the emotional baggage from Steven's surrender to Homeworld and their fight and estrangement following his return, as well as a way of "moving forward" to invest in her personal growth independently from having a magical best friend.[3] Connie herself confirmed in the podcast that she felt she needed a change from her signature long hair and that taking a new short-haired look would allow her to open up a new side of herself.
Her favorite fictional books are The Spirit Morph Saga.
Her favorite show is Under the Knife, a satire about hospitals she watches with Steven.
She might be a gamer, as seen in the short "Video Chat". Her laptop has Colonization V (a spoof of the real-life video game Civilization V). She has Empires & Eras II and Conqueror Kings II (spoofs of Age of Empires II and Crusader Kings II, respectively) and a Grid (a spoof of the popular gaming platform Steam).
In "Gem Hunt", she carries Rose's Sword on her back with the hilt over her shoulder. This is similar to many anime characters who carry giant swords the same way such as Ichigo Kurosaki from Bleach and Guts from Berserk.
Connie appears in the title sequence as Greg's Van drives by, causing a breeze that she looks towards. She holds the book A Wrinkle in Time, and is wearing a sky blue sundress, a pale tan sunhat, and orange boots.
In the second intro, Connie looks towards the road with a smile and pops out of the street and runs to the Crystal Temple, wearing the frames of her glasses until she reaches the Crystal Temple and lies in front of Rose's Sword. She wields Rose's Sword, holds an unknown book with a bookmark inside, and wears shorts along with a sleeveless T-shirt.
Connie has been directly referred to as Steven's girlfriend in commercials in Portugal[7] as well as numerous other European countries. While this is literally true (she is a girl and Steven's friend), their relationship doesn't turn romantic until midway through Steven Universe Future.
Steven and Connie have been confirmed by Rebecca Sugar to be in love, and that Connie is a little more forward about it than Steven. However, they do not officially enter a romantic relationship until midway through Steven Universe Future.[8]
A character with an appearance similar to Connie appears as a background character in the Japanese anime film Little Witch Academia: The Enchanted Parade.
She is the first and only known member of the Crystal Gems who is fully human.
She and Lion are the only members who are not at least partially a Gem (though Lion inherited his powers from a Gem).

Appearance
Lion has round ears, pink fur, black eyes, a soft light pink star-shaped mane, and a dark brownish-magenta heart-shaped nose. When Lion uses his magical abilities, his eyes and mane emit a white glow. There is a tuft of soft pink fur at the end of his thin tail.

Personality
Lion is an enigmatic creature whose sentience and sapience is somewhat questionable. However, he seems to act like a typical house cat, doing things like chasing butterflies in "Rose's Scabbard" and snapping at the dragonfly-like lights created by Sardonyx in "Cry for Help". Much like a normal animal, he rarely changes his expression and for the most part, he is quiet and docile. Though he is considered a "pet" for Steven, Lion looks after himself and often sees to his own activities. While Lion does not seem to acknowledge Steven most of the time, he does appear to understand Steven to a certain extent, responding whenever Steven needs him in mysterious ways. "Lion 2: The Movie" shows this understanding when he takes him and Connie to Rose's Secret Armory after Steven remarks how Lion is not "trained very well", and in "Lion 3: Straight to Video", Lion nearly smothers Steven's face to show him the dimension in his mane when Steven said he wanted to know more about his mother. Additionally, when Steven forced him outside, he whined and looked at him with sad eyes, showing that he didn't want to be left without him and that he does care about Steven in a sense.
However, in "Dewey Wins", after Connie asks Lion to take her home after frustratingly giving up trying to make Steven understand how much he hurt her by surrendering to Homeworld, Lion shoots Steven a disapproving glare before leaving with her, showing that he shares her anger at Steven over his surrender, as well as him treating the situation as nothing, and ignoring her feelings about it. Lion stays with Connie over the next few weeks afterward, presumably to give her comfort and companionship during her and Steven's estrangement, as well as teach Steven a hard lesson over his taking her and his other loved ones for granted; at one point, Connie rides him over to Steven's house to try and work things out in person after failing to do so over the phone, only to discover that he had left on vacation. In "Kevin Party", Lion returns along with Connie, bringing her to Kevin's party, and following her and Steven's reconciliation, forgives him as well, and by "Lars of the Stars", he showed to once again be under Steven's care and on good terms with him.
In "Can't Go Back", Lion demonstrates his caring and protectiveness of Steven's well being when he stops him from blindly running after Lapis after she opens the Moon Base's doors, and then nuzzles him in comfort when he ultimately fails to stop her from leaving.
In "Escapism", Lion encounters Steven in a Watermelon Steven's body out in the ocean and quickly recognizes him, showing his apparent ability to recognize Steven in any form. He takes Steven to Greg and Bismuth, and Steven relays a message for help to them before returning to his body.
In "Change Your Mind", when Lars finally returns home with the Off Colors, Lion snuggles up to him, indicating the bond they share by being brought back to life by Rose Quartz/Pink Diamond's power.
Two years later, in Steven Universe: The Movie, Lion has changed slightly, albeit retaining his feline traits of remaining docile and sleeping for extended periods of time. These changes come in the form of his involvement in the main conflict, as he actually willingly partakes in the dilemma involving the Crystal Gem's amnesia rather than having to be convinced by Steven. Lion also seems to now perfectly understand and genuinely care for Steven, listening to everything he says and showing affection by nuzzling him, as well as being worried about his safety after he confronts Spinel.
In "I Am My Monster" after Steven's PTSD, sense of purposelessness, and suppression of his emotions leads to his meltdown and transformation into a giant Gem Kaiju, Lion rallies with the rest of the Crystal Gems to help his master/charge. Teaming up once more with Connie, the two help evacuate the town, and then, after everyone embraces Steven with love, Lion warps her to the top of his head to give the final piece of love he needs. Later, after Steven has transformed back, Lion greets him with a warm, friendly lick and allows Steven to embrace him and cry into his mane as his master/charge finally lets out his emotions.
In "The Future", Lion warps Connie to see Steven and is last seen with them as they make plans to meet up while Steven travels around the world and eventually settles elsewhere, with the two intending to use his warp powers to maintain their relationship.

History
Pre-Series
Lion was once a normal wild lion, presumably owned by Rose Quartz in the desert hundreds of years ago (where he would have briefly met Buddy Buddwick when he traveled into the desert). After dying through unknown means, Lion was resurrected by Rose, granting him pink skin and magical abilities. Once resurrected, Rose stored many of her most valuable personal belongings inside of Lion's magical pocket dimension and got him familiar with her most notable locations, such as her fountain and armory. Rose also entrusted Lion with the key to her landfill.
Before Rose gave birth, it appears that she gave Lion instructions on when to reveal information about herself to Steven, as whenever Steven questions something about Rose, Lion shows him something new about her. Following Rose's departure upon giving birth to Steven, Lion roamed the desert alone, only to be found by the Crystal Gems and reunited. 
Season 1
"Steven's Lion"
Lion approaches Steven when the Crystal Gems visit the desert. Although appearing intimidating, Lion acts playful towards Steven, letting him pet him and climb on top of him. When the Gems return after bubbling the Desert Glass, they immediately become alarmed by Lion until Steven convinces them that he is harmless. When the Gems return to the Crystal Temple, Lion follows and begins scratching at the door of the Beach House. Steven is ecstatic to see Lion has returned and attempted to play games with him, even though Lion wants to get into the house.
After failing to have Lion play trust fall and catch, Steven takes him to Fish Stew Pizza and tells him to wait outside the shop. Lion runs back to the Beach House when Steven goes in and continues scratching at the door. He eventually breaks through and emits a magical roar at Amethyst who is sleeping near the Desert Glass. Frustrated that Lion cares more about the Desert Glass than himself, Steven throws the Desert Glass against the beach which causes it to reform sandcastles and other structures. Lion saves Steven by using his magical abilities to stop the Desert Glass and decides to stay with the Crystal Gems when they allow it.
"So Many Birthdays"
Lion shows up to Amethyst's birthday party. Lion plays with his birthday hat until Steven shows him how to put it on his head properly. Later on, when Steven's abilities cause him to age into an old man, Lion finds him and brings him back to the Gems.
"Steven the Sword Fighter"
Steven The Sword Fighter 003.png
Lion can be seen sitting underneath the porch of the Beach House while it rains.
"Lion 2: The Movie"
Steven presents Lion as transportation to the movie theater to Connie Maheswaran. Lion can be seen eating a Crystal Basilisk. Steven and Connie mount Lion, but he does not move until moments later when his eyes widen. Lion jumps and lands on the ocean, revealing he can walk on water. Although Steven tells him he is going the wrong way, Lion continues sprinting on the sea until creating a portal with his magical roar. The portal leads to Rose's Secret Armory, where Lion shows Steven and Connie the device which reveals Rose's weapons. When Steven and Connie accidentally activate the Robot Shooty Thing, Lion takes them through another portal he created, bringing them to the movies. The robot also manages to enter Lion's portal and follows them to the movies. Lion gives Steven and Connie Rose's Sword which was stored in his mane to defeat the robot. After the robot is defeated, Lion watches Dogcopter 3 with Steven and Connie, and is shown wearing 3-D glasses.
"Rose's Room"
Lion appears in the fake Beach City Rose's Room creates.
"Monster Buddies"
Lion stands alongside the Crystal Gems in front of the chained up Centipeetle, ready to strike in case she attacks.
"An Indirect Kiss"
Steven rests on Lion's back as they follow Connie up a hill to have a picnic. Throughout the episode, Lion can be seen resting while Steven tells Connie the story of his healing powers. When Steven discovers that he has healing spit, he tells Lion that they should tell the Gems, and the two rush down the hill.
"Ocean Gem"
Lion joins the Crystal Gems in getting the ocean back from Lapis Lazuli. Steven and Connie ride Lion to the center of the ocean while everyone else rides in Greg's Van. Later, Lion fights Lapis's water clone of Steven. He launches his magic roars against the clone but misses each time. Eventually, the clone launches Lion into Greg's van. Afterward, when Lapis returns the ocean, Lion and Connie save Steven before he plummets down thousands of feet. Once the ocean has returned to Beach City, Amethyst hugs Lion in celebration.
"Fusion Cuisine"
Lion is once again seen resting under the Beach House.
"Lion 3: Straight to Video"
Lion is with Steven at the Big Donut. He presses his face against the Lion Lickers fridge, but Steven tells him that they are disgusting. Back at the Beach House, Steven unpacks Sadie's mom's lunch bags while Lion watches, getting one of the bags stuck on his head. When Steven says that he wish he knew a little more about Rose, Lion becomes extremely clingy. He attempts to prevent Steven from falling asleep, and when he does, Lion engulfs Steven's face in his mane, revealing his magical pocket dimension. Lion continues his attempts to get Steven into his pocket dimension until Steven gets fed up and brings him outside on a time out. When Steven decides to forgive Lion, he accidentally goes inside of Lion's dimension and looks around at Rose Quartz's various artifacts. Steven takes Rose Quartz's Video Tape and views it at the Big Donut. After watching it, he goes outside of the shop where he finds Lion and hugs him.
"The Test"
Lion can be seen sleeping in the living room of the Beach House while the Gems play a board game.
"Rose's Scabbard"
Lion joins the Gems in removing weapons from the Gem Battlefield. He goes off on his own and ignores Steven when he calls for him. Lion digs up the scabbard to Rose's Sword and doesn't let go of it, even when Pearl tries to take it forcefully. When Steven goes off with Pearl to Rose's Secret Armory looking for Rose's Sword, Steven reveals that Lion has it once he remembers what it looked like, shocking Pearl. At the Beach House, Steven shows Pearl that Lion had it all along, which makes Pearl question if Lion has some connection to Rose. Pearl then refuses to believe that Rose had a Lion because if she did, she would have known about it. When Pearl runs away in frustration, Steven and Lion chase her down. Steven calms her down, and the two return Rose's Sword to Lion's dimension. To cheer up Pearl, Steven uses the dimension to perform various magic tricks and even shows her the battle flag that was inside of Lion. Steven and Pearl then ride back home on Lion's back.
"The Return"
Lion shows his support in Steven by placing his paw on his head. He takes Steven back to the Crystal Gems as the Gem Warship is about to land on the beach.
"Jail Break"
Lion uses his magical roar to remove debris from the Gem Warship explosion, revealing the Gems inside of Steven's bubble. Lion then watches as Malachite forms.
Season 2
"Full Disclosure"
Lion makes a brief appearance standing on the beach, following the events that occurred in "Jail Break".
"Chille Tid"
Steven tells Pearl of a dream he had where Lion is driving Greg's van. Later in one of Steven's dreams, Steven mistakes Malachite's hair for Lion's mane.
"Cry for Help"
Lion allows all of the Crystal Gems on his back as he takes them to the Communication Hub. Upon arriving, he drops out of exhaustion. Lion witnesses Pearl and Garnet fusing into Sardonyx. Later when Sardonyx unequips her hammer, the hammer turns into dragonflies which Lion attempts to catch in his mouth. Later on, Lion takes Steven and Amethyst back to the Communication Hub, where they wait to see what Peridot is up to.
"Nightmare Hospital"
Lion takes Connie back to her house. Steven takes Rose's Sword out of Lion and gives it to Connie. Later, when Steven needs to leave, Lion is gone. After Dr. Maheswaran takes Rose's Sword to the hospital she works at, Steven and Connie use Lion to warp there. Steven tells Connie that Lion listens to him if he gives him Lion Lickers. At the end of the episode, Dr. Maheswaran is surprised by Lion, and Steven explains that he is his pet.
"Steven's Birthday"
Lion can be seen resting outside of the Barn with Steven and Connie when he opens up her present.
"It Could've Been Great"
Steven leans against Lion while he plays his ukulele. When the Gems have to go to the Moon Base, Lion lets all of the Gems on his back while he opens up many portals, trying his hardest to get to the Moon. Once they finally arrive, Lion is exhausted, and for the remainder of the episode, Lion rests on the floor, and it is implied that he warps the Gems back to the Barn.
Season 3
"Same Old World"
Lion makes a brief appearance. Later on, Lion walks away, and Steven looks for him until discovering Lapis on the barn silo.
"Crack the Whip"
Lion arrives at the Beach House with Connie. He is seen later sleeping in the background while Steven and Connie train on the beach. During the day, Lion can be seen accompanying Steven, Connie, and Amethyst. He chases Amethyst (who has shapeshifted into a cat) with Steven and Connie, as well as rides the ferris wheel at Funland. When Jasper appears with the Corrupted Gems she captured, Lion fights Ocean Jasper with Steven and Connie. Once Amethyst poofs and Stevonnie forms, they mount Lion and charge at Jasper, who is riding in their direction on the Snow Monster. After they emerge victorious, Lion joins Steven and Connie in the running to the Temple to tell the others about their victory.
"Steven vs. Amethyst"
Steven tells Pearl and Garnet of how Stevonnie formed and fought alongside Lion to ward off Jasper.
"Bismuth"
Steven stops Lion from chewing up one of his shirts by hanging it up on the tree in Lion's dimension. He accidentally breaks the branch and pops a bubble, releasing Bismuth. Steven takes Bismuth out of Lion's dimension, which puts a strain on Lion's body. Lion, along with Steven and Amethyst, appear confused by who Bismuth is. Later on, Steven pulls Rose's Sword out of Lion to show Bismuth.
"Bubbled"
Steven tells Eyeball that he left Rose's Sword inside of Lion. Steven's lock screen is also shown to be a picture of himself and Lion.
Season 4
"Buddy's Book"
Lion takes Steven and Connie to the Buddwick Public Library. When they read Buddy Buddwick's Journal, they learn Buddy met Rose and pre-resurrection Lion, who originally belonged to a pride of at least seven lions led by Rose, in the desert over 200 years ago. When Lion saw Buddy, he licked him.
"The New Crystal Gems"
Connie tells the Gems that while they were out in space, she took care of Lion and that he behaved well.
"Storm in the Room"
While Steven vents to "Rose" about what she did wrong, he talks about how she locked Bismuth inside of Lion.
"Lion 4: Alternate Ending"
Lion coughs up the key to Rose's Landfill when Steven questions his magical destiny. Lion takes Steven to Rose's armory and her fountain, and then finally to her landfill to show Steven what the key opens. Lion then takes Steven to Greg when he asks about the tape labeled "For Nora" that Rose left behind in her landfill.
Season 5
"Lars' Head"
Steven discovers that by resurrecting Lars, he obtained all of the powers that Lion possesses. Steven enters Lion's dimension through Lars' hair and discovers that a new tree is in place, representing Lars. Steven walks over to Lion's tree and goes through the grass, which causes him to come out of Lion's mane. Steven realizes that Lion must have died and Rose resurrected him, and he remarks that he wishes he could talk to Lion. Steven then travels through Lion's mane and back out of Lars' hair on Homeworld. When Steven leaves Homeworld, he goes through Lars and out of Lion, making him arrive back on Earth.
"Dewey Wins"
After Connie gives up trying to make Steven understand how much he hurt her by surrendering to Homeworld, she asks Lion to take her home. Lion shoots Steven a disapproving glare before leaving with her, showing that he shares her anger at Steven over his surrender, as well as him treating the situation as nothing and ignoring her feelings about it.
After "Dewey Wins"
Over the next few weeks, Lion stays with Connie, presumably to give her comfort and companionship during her and Steven's estrangement, as well as teach Steven a hard lesson over his taking her and his other loved ones for granted. At one point during this time, Connie rides Lion to Steven's house in an attempt to reconcile in person after failing to do so over the phone, only to find that he'd gone on vacation.
"Kevin Party"
Lion returns along with Connie, bringing her to Kevin's party, and mostly remains in the background throughout the episode, observing things as some the partygoers fawn over him. He also shoots off several more disapproving glares at Steven when he deliberately ignores Connie during the party on Kevin's advice to manipulate her into making the first move in them reconciling, culminating in her almost leaving on Lion again instead after she resignedly assumes that Steven has given up on their friendship after being left completely in the dark by her for so long, and has moved on with Kevin as his new best friend. Fortunately, Steven comes to his senses in time and stops Connie from leaving, and following their reconciliation, Lion presumably forgives Steven as well, as he allows him to ride on his back again as the three warp home via Lion's magical gate.
"Lars of the Stars"
Lion is shown to once again be under Steven's care and on good terms with him, as he adorably rolls over and purrs like a kitten in front of Steven and Connie, briefly stymieing them with his cuteness before they go through his mane to visit Lars.
"Your Mother and Mine" and "Letters to Lars"
Though not seen, Steven travels through Lion's mane in each episode to visit Lars, introducing Garnet to him and the Off Colors, and bringing him a letter with the latest news in Beach City in each respective episode.
"Pool Hopping"
Lion is shown giving Steven a ride around Beach City, as the latter reflects on the latest changes to come to town since Aquamarine and Topaz's string of abductions. When Steven laments about the Big Donut being closed because no one is there to run it (due to Sadie quitting and Lars still being out in space), Lion drops him off near the store, which is shown to be now open (thanks to Garnet taking a job there). Lion is not seen again until the end of the episode, where he is shown sleeping, with Garnet's newly adopted kitten, Cat Steven, sleeping on top of him.
"Can't Go Back"
Lion warps Steven to the Moon Base to reunite with Lapis, and once again, is tuckered out from the use of his powers. He later demonstrates his protective nature of Steven when he stops him from blindly running after Lapis when she opens the base's doors and then nuzzles him in comfort when he ultimately fails to stop her from leaving. Steven then asks Lion to take him to Pearl.
"Now We're Only Falling Apart"
Amethyst becomes overwhelmed by the amount of pink, noting Lion, Rose's sword, and Pink Diamond.
"Reunited"
Lion attends Ruby and Sapphire's wedding and participates in the battle against the Diamonds with the other Crystal Gems.
"Legs From Here to Homeworld"
Lion escorts Steven, Connie, the Crystal Gems, and the Diamonds to Rose's Landfill to find Pink Diamond's Ship and later remains behind on Earth with Bismuth, Greg, and the Maheswarans, as they say goodbye and watch as the Crystal Gems go with Blue Diamond and Yellow Diamond to Homeworld.
"Escapism"
Lion finds Steven (in a Watermelon Steven) floating in the ocean and takes him to Greg and Bismuth. Lion watches with them as Steven try to explain what happened on Homeworld.
"Change Your Mind"
When Lars finally returns home with the Off Colors, Lion snuggles up to him, indicating the bond they share by being brought back to life by Rose Quartz/Pink Diamond's power. The Off Colors then show him affection by petting him. Lion later greets the Diamonds and meets White Diamond for the first time. After the Diamonds return to Homeworld, leaving the leg ship of their Mecha sitting on the temple, he is seen asleep while hanging out with the rest of the Crystal Gems.
Steven Universe: The Movie
Two years after the events of "Change Your Mind", Lion first appears napping in Greg's van as he gives Pearl a bass guitar lesson. After Steven arrives, Lion greets him and Steven uses Lion's mane to travel into Beach City. Later, Lion actively assists Steven and the Crystal Gems throughout their conflict with Spinel: helping Steven find the "reset" Amethyst, helping bring back Pearl's memories by participating in Steg and Opal's musical performance, retrieving Connie from space camp to help, and working with the Gems to rescue the Beach City's citizens get after the effects of Spinel's Injector devastate the town. He expresses concern for Steven's safety during his final battle with Spinel, especially following the massive explosion that destroys the injector, and later nuzzles Steven when he turns out to have survived afterwards.
Steven Universe Future
"Rose Buds"
Lion appears sleeping at the foot of Steven's bed, where it's revealed that Steven has stored the portrait of Rose Quartz in his mane's dimension.
"A Very Special Episode"
Lion appears in Steven's kitchen throughout the episode.
"Together Forever"
Steven rides Lion to Connie's house, and he brings the two back to the beach where they met where Steven intends to propose to her. After the proposal fails, Connie rides Lion back home.
"I Am My Monster"
After Steven's PTSD, sense of purposelessness, and suppression of his emotions leads to his meltdown and transformation into a giant monster, Lion rallies with the rest of the Crystal Gems to help his master/charge. Teaming up once more with Connie, the two help evacuate the town, and then, after everyone embaraces Steven with love, Lion warps her to the top of his head to give the final piece of love he needs. Later, after Steven has transformed back, Lion greets him with a warm, friendly lick and allows Steven to embrace him and cry into his mane as his master/charge finally lets out his emotions.
"The Future"
Lion warps Connie to see Steven and is last seen with them as they plan to meet up while Steven travels around the world and eventually settles elsewhere, with the two planning to use his warp powers to maintain their relationship.

Abilities
Concussive Roar: Lion has a loud, powerful roar that sends pink rings to knock down/destroy structures. Examples include knocking down multiple sand constructs in "Steven's Lion", pushing the remains of the Gem Warship in "Jail Break", and trying to defeat Lapis' water clone of Steven in "Ocean Gem". In "Crack the Whip", his roar sends Ocean Jasper flying. In "Reunited", his roar is strong enough to make Blue Diamond stagger.
Dimensiokinesis: Lion can manipulate dimensions with relative ease.
Portal Creation and Manipulation: Lion's roar can also open up pink portals, connecting two non-adjacent areas. "Lion 2: The Movie" first shows this when he takes Steven and Connie to Rose's Secret Armory, and additionally when going to the Gem Communication Hub in "Cry for Help". He also uses this ability to bring Connie and Steven to the Maheswaran residence in "Nightmare Hospital" and when Lion, with Connie on his back, rescue Steven in "Ocean Gem". Lion also uses this power to find and bring Steven to Pearl in "Rose's Scabbard". Lion can create portals that help him cover enormous distances as shown in "It Could've Been Great" when he creates a portal from Earth to the Moon in mere seconds. This does leave him fatigued afterward, possibly due to carrying Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl on his back and Steven and Peridot in his mane while traversing the portal.
Super Warp: Once inside his portal, Lion can create additional portals that cause him to accelerate with each pass through a successive portal. This trick is likely done to increase speed and distance traveled, as seen in the episode "It Could've Been Great".
Pocket Dimension: Like Pearl, Lion has a pocket dimension that is currently only accessible through his mane as well as Lars' hair after his resurrection. This dimension is a vast pink savannah that includes two grassy hills, one with an acacia tree and another with a tree resembling an oak. Only Steven can directly access this dimension, as shown by Pearl's failed attempt in "Rose's Scabbard", though others may enter when doing so with Steven. As shown in "Lars' Head" and "Lars of the Stars", one can travel through one entrance and exit through the other.
Dimensional Storage: Rose stored some of her most cherished and important belongings inside of Lion's mane for safe keeping. These include a variety of items, such as her sword, a photo, and videotape of her and Greg, a treasure chest, the Mr. Universe Shirt Greg gave her when they first met, a tattered flag with Rose's symbol, and formerly Bismuth's gem. It also contains some of Steven's belongings such as his bike, helmet, some magic trick paraphernalia, soda, and probably much more.
Supernatural Stamina: Lion has incredible stamina, as shown in "Ocean Gem" where Lion kept pace with Greg's Van for an entire day while carrying Steven and Connie. He also demonstrates the capability to leap far distances. However, his stamina does have limits, as in "Cry for Help" when after carrying all three Crystal Gems with Steven in his pocket dimension, he shows signs of fatigue. "It Could've Been Great" further shows this limitation since the strain Lion feels is directly proportional to the distance traveled; making a portal from the Earth to the moon was enough to make him collapse and breathe heavily.
Water-walking: Lion can walk on water, as seen in "Lion 2: The Movie" when he takes Steven and Connie to Rose's Secret Armory. He shares this ability with Opal.

Trivia
Lion appears to like Lion Lickers, as shown in the episode, "Lion 3: Straight to Video", when he presses his face against the glass of the freezer holding the Lion Lickers. This attract can be a reference due to him being a lion.
In "Nightmare Hospital", Steven gives Lion Lickers to Lion to get him to stay in the Hospital parking lot. Lion seems enthralled by them, frantically attempting to reach the treat before the plastic is even off, to which Steven remarks about the animality of doing so.
Rebecca Sugar's pet cat is also named Lion.
Lion's ability to teleport might explain how he manages to follow the Crystal Gems back to the Temple in "Steven's Lion".
Lion usually sleeps near the house of the temple, as shown in "Fusion Cuisine" and in "Steven the Sword Fighter", when he is seen resting underneath the house.
In "Lion 3: Straight to Video", Steven allows Lion to sleep in the house in a bed he made for him.
One of the concepts designs considered for Lion is an "unsettling, silent caricature of a lion", like an "old medieval heraldry image. His face frozen into an uncertain grin except for his eyes which would follow Steven around while he creeped out the other Crystal Gems. He might not be pretty and actually kinda suspicious, but Steven loved him!".[1]
It is unclear how far Lion can teleport, but the furthest he has teleported so far is to the Moon while carrying Steven, Peridot, and the Crystal Gems. The jump to the Moon required several portals to stay open and is shown to exhaust Lion.
Steven states in "Lion 2: The Movie" that Lion "does his own thing most of the time".
Lion's portals are in the shape of diamonds and his teleportation theme features distorted accordions, the same instrument used in the theme songs for characters of the Diamond Authority.
When Lion saves Steven from the sandstorm in "Steven's Lion", Lion's color scheme changes and resembles the male Lions seen alongside Rose Quartz in the episode "Buddy's Book". His mane becomes darker than his body fur, changing from pink to cream-colored.
In the episode, "Lars' Head", Lars develops an ability to allow Steven to travel to Lion's head, indicating a connection to how Lion's ability and fur color formed. Given that Lion resembles the male Lions from "Buddy's Book" and Lars gains his abilities after he is revived by Steven's healing powers, Lion may have similarly been revived by Rose Quartz's healing powers which Steven inherited. This would indicate that Rose may have used them to revive Lion after he died.
Rebecca Sugar has confirmed in an interview that Lion got his powers the same way as Lars.[2]
He is similar in some respects to the Marvel Comics character Lockjaw.
His fur colors are identical to Lars's.

Film / 2012
2012 is a 2009 Disaster Movie based on the prediction that the world would end on December 21st, 2012. This prediction is itself based on the fact that the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar rolls over somewhere in the vicinity of 2012-12-21, in much the same way that the Gregorian calendar rolled over on 2000-01-01. It mainly follows Jackson Curtis (John Cusack), a struggling, divorced chauffeur, attempting to survive the apocalypse with his family. The one thing that keeps him and his family alive are rumors of 'Arks' built by the world governments to keep what they can safe.
This movie is by the same guy who did Independence Day and The Day After Tomorrow. (There's probably a pattern here.) At the time of the film's release, Word of God stated that this was to be his final disaster flick,note  so he tried as best as he could to pack enough Stuff Blowing Up and Monumental Damage into it to last a lifetime.
A Spin-Off TV series, tentatively called 2013 and focusing on a group of survivors, was planned. However, as ABC decided to not finance it, not to mention that the actual year 2013 is already in the past, it's unlikely it will ever be made.
Not to be confused with 2012, a BBC sitcom about the committee preparing for the 2012 Olympic Games; 2010: The Year We Make Contact, or Rush's album 2112.
Provides Examples Of:
Acrophobic Bird: Justified in that Gordon just got his pilot's license and can barely fly. Barely fly upward, that is. He does amazingly well at dodging buildings and debris, something even an experienced pilot would have trouble with.
It happens in two instances, the second one has Gordon pair up with an experienced Russian pilot, flying a giant Antonov plane. In all of these instances, the runway is disintegrating, but with the Antonov, they actually run out of runway before reaching liftoff speed.
Action Film, Quiet Drama Scene: Multiple, particularly the scene in Air Force One between Adrian and Laura, what's left of Washington DC and the President, and the scenes involving Jackson and his family in Yuri's plane.
Adult Fear: Kate provides proof that, in a situation like what's depicted in the movie, one of the top priorities for parents is the safety of their children (in this case, Lilly and Noah). Her concerns do not go unfounded at Yellowstone, seeing as Lilly gets close to the edge of an awakening supervolcano thanks to Jackson and is nearly killed by a lava-bomb that strikes the RV she and Jackson are in (the only reason they survive the strike is the fact it only obliterated the back). There are also implied instances of children dying as the disaster unfolds, as well as cases that seem obvious such as Satnam's son.
Aloha, Hawaii!: The characters planned to stop in Honolulu to refuel. The city, and the rest of O'ahu, is completely covered in lava.
Anyone Can Die: As befitting a movie about the end of the world, but even by disaster movie standards this one is pretty ruthless. Don't get attached to anyone who's not John Cusack's immediate family.
Apathetic Citizens: When Tony calls his estranged son, his family is shown to have been sound asleep even though the world is literally collapsing around them.
Apocalypse How: Judging by the sight of huge chunks of Los Angeles getting ripped out of the ground, this is likely to be a Class 2 at the very least. We look at about Class 3b, maybe Class 4, depending on the severity of volcanism and floods. The end of the film implies only Class 1 - the vast majority of humans are dead, but civilization perseveres.
Apocalypse Wow: ...Pretty much the whole point of the film.
Applied Phlebotinum: The destruction of the Earth is caused by the heating of its core, caused by excess neutrinos being emitted by the Sun. However, since neutrinos almost never interact with matter, these are neutrinos that are "mutating into some other subatomic particle," presumably ones that can interact with matter more often. Why these new particles don't interact with the Earth's surface is unclear. Lampshaded when Adrian, listening about the neutrinos, simply declares "That's impossible". He's right.
The Ark: Nine of them, in fact. Though only four of them were completed in time, and one was critically damaged before it could be launched.
Artistic License: Roland Emmerich does this everywhere, as usual
Animal Care: Amongst the animals being airlifted to the Arks include a rhinoceros and a giraffe. Due to a mixture of the high altitude, low temperatures and the frigid winds being blown over them, both of those animals - as well as any other African animals - would die of either hypothermia or oxygen deprivation.
Engineering: Architects and construction engineers everywhere were cringing in their seats when the earthquakes hit Italy and the Vatican Basilica topples sideways in one piece, then proceeds to roll across the whole of St Peter's Square like a giant flipper ball. A building like this (or any building at all, really) would've simply collapsed like a house of cards when subjected to such unimaginable forces. The same goes for how the destruction of most of LA's skyscrapers is depicted.
Geography:
The film suggests that a journey between Yellowstone National Park and Los Angeles can be driven in a few hours. The two are 1000 miles apart. The same issue happens when they go from Yellowstone to Las Vegas. Somehow, the ground-based pyroclastic flow from the super-eruption made it all those miles without it's momentum getting killed off.
If a plane needs to be refuelled during a flight between Las Vegas and China, it would save around 1100 miles if you did so in Alaska or Siberia rather than Hawaii.
If the highest point in the world was in South Africa, it would not look anything like it does now.
If a cruise ship starts its voyage in San Francisco and travels westwards, within two days it would be a third or so of the distance between California and Hawaii, NOT in the middle of the Sea of Japan.
In 2012, as it had been since 2008, the USS John F Kennedy (CV-67) was berthed at NISMF Philadelphia. For a wave to scoop it up from Philly, haul it out to the ocean, then bring it back in on its collision course with Danny Glover is an extreme stretch.
Geology:
Most of the film operates under this, particularly the depiction the eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano. Except for Gordon, who raises his hand very calmly to his eyes in reaction to the brightness, the other protagonist's barely react to the eruption and come out completely unscathed. No-one goes deaf from the sound of the eruption, while the shockwave throws Charlie a couple of feet backwards, despite the trees all around him being uprooted in their thousands. Finally the pyroclastic flow slows down to let the plane time to escape unharmed, while ignoring convection not to boil them alive and after emerging from the ash cloud, the plane isn't even dirty.
The sinking of California by a 10.9 earthquake causing the Earth crust displacement has so much wrong written all over it that it doesn't even try to stray away from this trope.
There are no active volcanoes in Honolulu.note 
Modern scientists studying the caldera at Yellowstone indicate that an eruption there would send enough ash into the atmosphere to bring about a miniature ice age. Combine that ash with the amount pouring from the Hawaiian island chain that has erupted, and the Earth would stay cool for a very long time. The end of the movie indicates that a mere 27 days after the event, the seas are calm and the sky is clear and warm.
On a related note, while the ash cloud would easily reach and probably thickly blanket Las Vegas, the pyroclastic flow would not; it would have slowed, cooled, and collapsed long before then. So, while Vegas would've definitely had a lot of ashfall, the apocalyptic, control-tower-obliterating flow shown is completely unreasonable.
History:
The scientific paper on the shifting of the Earth's crust is said to have been published in 1958, and Albert Einstein is said to have agreed with it. How somebody who died in 1955 can agree with a paper written after their death is anybody's guess.
The trailers called the Mayans "Mankind's Earliest Civilization". It's certainly old, with roots stretching back to 2000 BCE, but Egypt, Sumer, and the Indus Vally Civilization date back to at least 1000 years prior to that. The Classic Period coincides with the decline of the Roman Empire.
Military: The US Navy doesn't paint the name and pennant number of a carrier on the flight deck in the method shown. The number is painted on the island and bow of the flight deck (quite prominently) and name on the stern per maritime convention, but that's it.
Physics:
The Yellowstone eruption. It manages an explosion probably measured in gigatons without any significant blast overpressure. Trees are flattened, but it abates within a mere mile or two - helpfully before obliterating all the major characters. Geologists say that in an eruption of that magnitude, anyone close enough to see it with the naked eye would not survive.
The tsunamis:
A huge and incredibly heavy Tsunami is able to climb up a steep hill without changing its trajectory.
Another tsunami is also able to carry an aircraft carrier on its side without the ship breaking up.
The Earth is being destroyed because solar neutrinos are "mutating" into a form that heats the interior of the Earth like a microwave oven. In reality, solar neutrinos do mutate — they change between electron, muon, and tau flavors during their travels in a process called neutrino oscillation. However, none of these neutrino flavors is capable of interacting with the Earth's interior. Or any form of normal matter.
Dara O' Briain: [Neutrinos] can't mutate. Their structure is fundamental to the structure of the universe. Right? They can't just change. He might as well have gone, "The electrons are angry!".
Two courtesy of the Little Prop Plane that Could:
Takeoff speeds are not negotiable. When Gordon points out a specific speed of 85 knots he needs to take off (unsurprisingly reading his airspeed indicator's markings wrong), Cusack essentially tells him to go anyway, the fool agrees, and it works. note 
The plane apparently had a warp drive. When the Yellowstone caldera decides it's time to party, among other things it sends out a pyroclastic flow. This is to be expected should Yellowstone erupt again. The problem is that the average speed of a pyroclastic flow is between 300 and 450 MPH, and the top speed of a Cessna 340 is 279MPH. It is physically incapable of remaining in stable flight at greater speed. note 
All scientists - even American ones - use metric units, so Satnam should have referred to the mine as being about 3300 metres rather than 11,000 feet deep.
It's not possible for a ship's engines not to function when there is one door or gate open.
It's not possible for water to flow into a watertight room when all access routes are closed.
Politics:
The US President requests to speak to his fellow heads of state at the G8 Summit. If this was to happen, he'd only be speaking to the French and Russian presidents - the restnote  send their head of government (who actually exercise executive power).
Arnold Schwarzenegger's term as Governor of California ended in 2011, as the state has a two term limit.
As Long as It Sounds Foreign: When the Russian president whispers to his interpreter, he is doing so in Serbo-Croatian rather than Russian.
Award-Bait Song: 2012 has Adam Lambert's Time For Miracles and Filter's Fades Like A Photograph.
Badass Beard: Charlie and Sasha sport these.
Black Comedy: In Charlie's video, there is a scene where he holds up the Earth (metaphorically represented as an orange). A knife appears and slices through the Earth, cutting Charlie's fingers off in the process. The real Charlie hints he included it to draw his audience in.
Bratty Half-Pint:
Yuri's twins, but living through the disaster hammers that out of them.
Noah initially, due to resenting Jackson for being a Disappeared Dad.
Bribe Backfire: Implied. After the Chinese take Yuri and his sons to the helicopter while leaving the rest of Jackson's group behind, Kate asks if any of them has money, thinking they could bribe the Chinese into taking them to the Arks. Gordon says he has some and begins looking into what looks like a wallet. The response:
Jackson: Anyone got €1,000,000,000?
Broken Aesop: Dr. Adrian Helmsley gives a rousing speech aboard one of the Arks on the importance of humanity looking out for one another and convinces the captain to open the gates, allowing more people in. While well-intentioned, this decision indirectly results in the Diabolus ex Machina offings of Gordon and Tamara via the ship flooding.
Then again, if Dr Adrian didn't persuade the captain to open the gates, HUNDREDS MORE PEOPLE WOULD HAVE DIED (the passengers who paid to be on the Arks and the builders).
Then yet AGAIN, none of this would have been an issue had Jackson's crew not managed to foul the gears up in the first place when they snuck in. Makes one wonder if they ever bother to correct everyone calling Jackson a "hero." That's a secret to take to the grave.
California Collapse: Massive earthquakes tear up the California coastline, open up a giant canyon, then send the remains slipping down into the sea.
Car Meets House: Or rather, limo meets crumbling high rise.
And there's aircraft carrier meets White House.
Cassandra Truth: Jackson. He buys into Charlie's theories after seeing Yuri's preparations for the Ark, and when trying to convince Kate, she does not believe him until California begins breaking up beneath her feet.
Character Filibuster: Adrian takes the world's leaders to school on the meaning of humanity.
Cheating with the Milkman: Tamara with Yuri's pilot Sasha. Yuri, who had discovered the affair some time before, gets his revenge by dumping both Tamara and Sasha behind to fend for themselves.
Chekhov's Gun: The cars in the Russian plane.
Chekhov's Gunman: Adrian's father Harry is shown boarding a cruise ship early in the film, and he mentions that he has a son he stays in touch with. It isn't clear until later in the film that Adrian is his son.
Chekhov's Hobby: Gordon's flying lessons.
Chekhov's Skill: Yuri Karpov easily knocks out a guard in one punch. Anyone remember him telling that he, in his younger days, was a boxer in Murmansk?
Chekhov's Volcano: Guess where.
Christianity Is Catholic: Sasha makes the sign of the cross in the Catholic way (forehead - chest - left shoulder - right shoulder), instead of the Orthodox way (forehead - chest - right shoulder - left shoulder) — 97% of Russian Christians are Orthodox.
Church of Saint Genericus: In the White House.
Closest Thing We Got: Gordon is only an amateur pilot, but he's the only person in Jackson's social circle who's remotely qualified to fly them to safety. Later Jackson is able to get his family a seat on Yuri Karpov's plane because Yuri needed a second pilot, even though Gordon was even less qualified to fly the much larger plane he'd be helping control.
Cloudcuckoolander: Charlie Frost. Needless to say, he actually is right.
Conspiracy Theorist: Charlie Frost again. Of course, he is right about what's happening, and sets into motion the race to get to the Ark. He is wrong on one thing: the Arks aren't spaceships to get completely off the planet, just super-armored carriers. He references several other theories he has, including some about Marilyn Monroe that he soesn’t go into.
Contrived Coincidence: The various ways in which Jackson and his family meet up with the other groups in the story and manage to get on the Arks. It's lampshaded when the geological expert sees Jackson's family get aboard the Ark - he wonders how they managed to get on...
Also of note are the sheer number of situations where the characters "just barely" escape death, such as a building "nearly" falling onto their plane.
The scientist who helped Jackson with his book just so happened to be one of the people involved in the conspiracy and he was killed when he tried to come forward.
Convection Schmonvection: The movie seems to forget that in pyroclastic flows, the heat kills people long before the ash cloud touches them. Of course, they do stay barely ahead of the flow itself. While that's already testing of the Suspension of Disbelief, if they were all the way in the cloud, they'd be dead. They do very briefly get caught inside of the flow in an airplane, which makes even less sense, since airplanes generally don't run well in clouds of superheated ash. Bizarrely, the film then starts paying attention to the laws of physics again, just in time for said pyroclastic flow to utterly disintegrate Las Vegas airport (and the city itself).
Cool Boat: The Arkships, absolutely gigantic, heavily armored super-carriers designed to comfortably harbor 100,000 passengers apiece until the apocalypse blows over.
Cool Plane: The Antonov An-225, dubbed "Antonov 500" in the film
Noah: Now that's a big plane.
Yuri: (smiling proudly) It's Russian. note 
Cool Old Guy: Harry Helmsley and Tony Delgatto, the two slick elderly jazz singers.
Corrupt Corporate Executive: Anheuser shows signs of this, being quick to assume command on the possibility that other important members of government may be dead and only saved world leaders or the rich social elite, who were said to be determined by "genetic tests done by top scientists".
Crazy-Prepared: The governments of the world knew the end was coming three years in advance, and they let the Chinese build ships to take those who could be saved away from danger.
The Cuckoolander Was Right: Charlie and his prediction of the Yellowstone Caldera erupting.
Deadpan Snarker:
Jackson has his moments:
Charlie: (After Jackson asked what the map he had indicated) They're building spaceships, man!
Jackson: Err, I've got to go, because I've gotta get back to Earth.
Also:
Jackson: (After he and his children have been detained by the military) This is a National Park! There's not supposed to be posted fences. What's going on?
Adrian: We're geologists.
Jackson: Do you usually go digging with machine guns?
Anheuser also has his moment:
Adrian: (After hearing about the tickets to the Arks) What about these workers? Do they get tickets?
Anheuser: What, life isn't fair?
Death by Sex: Both Sasha and Tamara die because they were having an affair.
Death Course: From Kate's home to the Santa Monica Airport. And that was just the beginning.
Death of the Hypotenuse: Poor Gordon.
Dewey Defeats Truman: Obviously.
Diabolus ex Machina:
The deaths of Gordon and Tamara come across as gratuitously cruel.
Tamara's death is an odd case, as her compartment was the only one to flood to that level. Note that the main characters are in the next two compartments over (with Tamara in the middle) and the water level does not reach the same height. Tamara must have been in the overflow section. At least she saved one of the kids and her dog first.
Sasha's death. He manages to successfully land the plane, a few inches away from falling... and the cliff crumbles.
George Segal's son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter.
The cataclysm serves as this to most of the human race.
Disappeared Dad: Several examples.
Jackson is the "present in physicality only" sort who remarks with dismay that his 7 year old daughter still has a bedwetting problem.
Harry and Tony are both estranged from their children (and in one case grandchildren).
Disaster Movie: From start to finish, with very little of the Earth coming away unscathed by the end.
Disney Death: Jackson has one in Yellowstone when the RV he's in falls into a fissure. And this is just after he has found the map to the Arks.
Disney Villain Death: Yuri, with a low threshold for villainy.
Disposable Fiancé: Gordon.
Disposable Pilot: Sasha stays behind on the plane while everyone else bails out. He safely lands, but an ice shelf gives way under him.
Divorce Is Temporary: Double Subverted. Looks like they're going to play it straight as Kate and Gordon seem to be drifting apart then, then subverted as it looks like they're going to work things out, then cruelly forced back into played straight as Gordon is killed in the gears of the Ark while Jackson looks on, unable to save him.
Does Not Like Shoes: Laura goes barefoot in a few scenes.
Do Not Touch the Funnel Cloud: Well, the Yellowstone pyroclastic cloud.
Don't Call Me "Sir": Dr. Helmsley prefers to be called "Adrian".
Dramatic Irony:
Immediately after scenes of wanton destruction, the cruise ship musicians Harry and Tony sing a song with the lyrics "It's not the end of the world/It's only the end of this song."
The earthquakes have a nice sense of this too. One strikes just after the Governor of California says "the worst is over." Even better, Gordon says to Kate that 'there is something pulling us apart'... and a fissure promptly opens between them.
There's also a massive example at the end: It's stated that the African continent has risen after the crust displacement, and that it likely never flooded. This means that the world's poorest continent was the one to receive the least devastation, since it only got hit by the earthquakes. The Captain even remarks that's why that region has a place called Cape of Good Hope, where all Arks head to after the tidal waves subside.
Drives Like Crazy: Jackson Curtis. In a limo and RV of all things.
Dropped a Bridge on Him: Gordon, Sasha, literally for Yuri, though it's not what kills him.
Dying Moment of Awesome: Charlie Frost gleefully enjoys one last scenery-feast before the Yellowstone Caldera erupts and kills him.
This moment triples as Charlie Chewing the Scenery as well as a Large Ham moment. This is Woody Harrelson clearly having a great time.
Also Yuri, who throws his kids to safety before the momentum takes him over the edge of the bridge.
Earthquakes Cause Fissures: Good Lord, do they ever.
Embarrassing Damp Sheets: Jackson remarks with dismay that his 7 year old daughter still has a bedwetting problem.
Epic Movie: Hell, yeah!
Eureka Moment: Overlaps with Oh, Crap! with Jackson Curtis. After taking Karpov's kids to the airport, one of them tells our hero that he will die while they will survive the imminent apocalypse in a ship. That, and the fact that Charlie was right.
The Everyman: Jackson Curtis, a down-on-his-luck divorced writer working as a limo driver to pay the bills.
Exact Time to Failure: The scientists' estimates about when the tidal waves are expected to reach the location of the Ark ships. Semi-justified in that you can calculate the time it'll take for a wave to reach the Ark, but as it's flowing over a massive landmass, it should be an estimate.
Subverted and Lampshaded with the actual planetary meltdown, which jumps itself up by six months and causes all the precise survival plans to collapse.
Even Evil Has Loved Ones: Though saying "evil" is a bit strong Yuri sacrifices his life so his sons can survive, throwing one of them onto the Ark's walkway and hurling himself off a cliff with the momentum.
Even Bad Men Love Their Mamas: Played with for Anheuser, who loves his mother and tearfully tells her goodbye, but feels she's too old to be worth saving.
Expy:
The unnamed, former actor-turned-California governor with a thick Austrian accent
The female German chancellor.
The British Royal Family: a quick shot as they are loading the Arks shows an elderly well-dressed woman in a purple coat with Corgis, undoubtedly Queen Elizabeth II (and her family.)
The inspirational black president, though this may just be a latter-day example of Bald, Black Leader Guy.
Face Death with Dignity: Satnam and his family, knowing full well that they don't stand a chance in hell of escaping the oncoming tsunami, spend their final moments embracing each other as the others around them panic. Various other examples are also seen, combined with some of the facing the bullets one liners mentioned below.
Lama Rinpoche gets an epic one as the tsunami sweeps away his monastery (note, at the very top of a mountain in the Himalaya). He simply stands and rings the giant bell at the top of the building as the wave approaches.
Thomas Wilson, the President who did not abandon his post.
"Facing the Bullets" One-Liner:
"You heard first from Charlie!"
"I'm coming home, Dorothy".
Fat Bastard: Carl Anheuser after his introduction.
First Father Wins: And lives.
Foreshadowing:
In the beginning of the movie, a child has an accident with a toy boat in a puddle. That toy boat is a scale model of the SS United States
During the destruction of Los Angeles, Gordon's Porsche Cayman falls into the Earth after getting pushed by Jackson's limo upon fleeing from the Curtis residence. This foreshadows Gordon's own death, as he falls into the gears later in the film.
Genre Savvy: As a has-been sci-fi novelist, Jackson has a couple of moments.
Jackson: (after his ex-wife mentions that the news are saying the earthquake that preludes the "sinking of L.A." sequence is no cause for panic) When they tell you not to panic - that's when you run!
The Glasses Come Off: Played for Laughs as Noah tries on a pair of oversized sunglasses, then whips them off dramatically to share a message from Kate with Jackson: "She wants us to come home!"
Government Conspiracy: The governments of the world knew beforehand, but didn't tell anyone even after it started, assassinating everyone who tried to tell people the truth, except for obvious nutjobs like Charlie Frost. Explained as being the only way they could build any Arks without the place being swarmed by refugees, terrorists, renegade army units, etc. that would jeopardize any humans surviving.
The Great Flood: And that's after the land-shattering earthquakes and volcanoes.
Ground by Gears: Gordon ends up caught in the gears of the Ark's door mechanism and is brutally (though not explicitly) crushed to death. A minor Chinese character also ends up getting a leg caught in the machinery.
Heroic Sacrifice: Yuri throws one of his children to safety, the momentum of which hurtles him to his death. and Sasha stays in the plane in order to give the others a chance to escape. Heck, even Tamara ensures her dog and Lilly are safe but is fatally trapped herself.
Heterosexual Life-Partners: Harry and Tony.
Hollywood Science: Even given some Lampshade Hanging at the beginning.
Homage: To famous disaster movies, with numerous references.
Independence Day/Jurassic Park: "must go faster, must go faster!"
Jaws: "We're gonna need a bigger plane."
The Poseidon Adventure as Papa Helmsley's ship capsizes.
And, of course, Earthquake.
The Vice President suffers a similar fate to the First Lady in Independence Day, going down in a helicopter trying to escape an area.
Horrible Camping Trip: Downplayed. While there is no volcanic eruption (yet) and it does not form the majority of the plot, the military presence at Yellowstone is taken as something out of the ordinary, while the Curtis kids are bitten by mosquitoes because Jackson apparently forgot to spray the tent. One of them seems to consider the mosquitoes to be the low-point.
Noah: (text message) Hi Gordon, camping sucks! (emoji)
Ignored Expert: Played straight for about ten seconds as Anheuser blows a frantic Adrian off, then subverted as he actually takes the young scientist seriously after flipping through his manuscript.
I Need a Freaking Drink: Upon learning that the world is about to end Harry orders a double. Tony and a waiter are both shocked, as he hasn't touched alcohol in 25 years.
Infant Immortality: Averted with Tony and Satnam's families, along with a lot of other off-screen child deaths.
Informed Flaw: Gordon is an amateur pilot and claims to have had only a few flying lessons, but performs impressive feats of stunt piloting during the escape from California. He is, of course, improvising and is helped along by an actual pilot on the Russian plane.
It's All About Me: As Carl Anheuser gradually gains more political power over the course of the film's story, he lets the authority get to his head while rationalizing his selfish, reprehensible actions with an I Did What I Had to Do attitude. As the Chief of Staff, he arranged the death of the director of the Louvre who tried to go public with the disaster and deliberately abandoned many of the scientists who worked under him in order to keep their findings secret from the general public. He also designed the Arks with comfortable luxury suites, neglecting to accommodate as many people as possible. As the de-facto President of the USA, Anheuser argued for allowing millions of stranded passengers to die in order for the rest to survive, despite the possibility of saving those passengers. While Anheuser makes a reasonable point or two for what he does, his selfishness and expediency has resulted in many avoidable deaths.
Jerk with a Heart of Gold: Gordon, who at first appears to just be a toolish plastic surgeon. The kids love him (so we know he can't be all bad) but what really shows his better side is finding out he tried to talk Tamara out of getting plastic surgery. Also Yuri. While Yuri's still a asshole for leaving Tamara, he does manage to get his children on board Ark 4 before dying a horrible death.
Karma Houdini: Carl Anheuser. When the wave reaches the Arks, he orders them to abandon the people who paid to be on the Arks and the builders to die in the tsunami, not to mention the majority of the human race. He also planned only to save world leaders along with the wealthy social elite while leaving everyone else to die, including THE WORKERS WHO BUILT THE ARK. Adrian and Laura call him out on a few things, but he doesn't even get a Shut Up, Hannibal!.note 
Kill the Cutie: Poor Tamara.
Large Ham: Woody Harrelson ("BRING IT ON!") That Chewing the Scenery bit on the Yellowstone caldera puts him up here for sure.
Lethal Lava Land: Hawai'i gets turned into this. Complete with Scenery Gorn of the ruined Honolulu skyline.
Loads and Loads of Characters: A new character is added to the movie every 10 minutes or so, and most of them exist to get mowed down for the sake of upping the drama quotient.
Love Triangle: Two of them. Gordon, Kate, and Jackson. Yuri, Tamara and Sasha.
Machine Empathy: Sasha, when trying to clear the ruined skyline in the giant Antonov.
Sasha: Come on baby, lift your big ass for Sasha!
Made of Iron: Literally of course in case of the Arks, but even then these things are ludicrously durable for something so huge, to the point that even head-on collisions with the Air Force One and the flippin' Mount Everest barely make a dent.
Make It Look Like an Accident: The people who The Conspiracy killed to cover up their crazy preparedness had some of the deaths reported in the obituaries as 'accidents'. One example is particularly noted: that of the NASA scientist who told Charlie about the Arks.
Mayan Doomsday: The whole premise.
Meaningful Name:
The kid is named Noah and is the reason Ark 04 didn't sink.
His father's initials are JC
Boorish President-by-Default Carl Anheuser, who is first seen in the movie partying and ignoring warning signs of dangerous happenings-to-be.
Men Act, Women Are: The female characters don't really do a whole lot. They comfort the children, sometimes. And the President's daughter exists solely to be Adrian's Love Interest. Notable especially in the plane sequences, where only Yuri and Jackson ever go up to see what's happening.
Missing Mom: First Lady Dorothy Wilson, Laura's mother, died prior to the main events of the film. President Wilson mentions that she suggested they hold a lottery for the Arks (instead of what actually transpired).
A Million Is a Statistic: Anheuser, who points out they can't save everybody. He attempts to abandon the passengers of Ark 4 due to this and another trope.
Monumental Damage: The film gives us the destruction of the following landmarks:
The Cristo Redentor statue in Rio de Janeiro.
St. Peter's Basilica and the Sistine Chapel in Rome, the latter complete with a crack opening up between Adam and God on the fresco ceiling. And the dome rolling away like it was a massive ball.
The Las Vegas Strip, including its fake Eiffel Tower, gets torn apart by an Earthquake AND a Pyroclastic cloud.
The Washington Monument.
The White House, which gets crushed by an aircraft carrier. By the carrier named after John F. Kennedy, no less.
Yellowstone National Park balloons then explodes as the caldera erupts.
The entire city of Los Angeles. You could probably pick out the Capital Records Building getting it again if you look closely.
Subverted during the movie's planning stages with the Kaaba in Mecca. One of the scriptwriters outright said that he didn't want a fatwa issued against him.
Most Writers Are Writers: Albeit unsuccessful ones. Jackson tries to pimp his book a lot.
Mr. Fanservice: Sasha, the most fit and well-groomed of the group of survivors with Jackson.
Ms. Fanservice: Scantily clad blonde bombshell Tamara gets little characterization beyond being Yuri's somewhat reluctant arm candy, which makes her this both In-Universe and out.
Never a Self-Made Woman: All the women are pretty much defined by their roles as mothers, daughters, girlfriends and ex-wives except maybe the German Chancellor and President Wilson's secretary.
Next Sunday A.D.: Right in the title.
Nice Job Breaking It, Hero!: Ark 4 is almost doomed when equipment Jackson's family and the Tibetan family use to sneak aboard becomes jammed in the gate's hydraulics.
"Noah's Story" Arc: There are great disasters all around the world, particularly a giant flood. The small portion of the populace try to escape this fate by building giant arks in the Himalayas. In one shot, some animals are brought in such as giraffes and elephants. One of the protagonists is a young boy named Noah.
No Celebrities Were Harmed:
The governor of California is never named, but has a strong Austrian accent, and apparently used to be an actor.
Also the President is black (instead of biracial) though considerably different in background.
And Germany's Chancellor is female.
Yuri Karpov looks suspiciously similar in appearance and hairstyle to Shabtay Kalmanovich, a recently murdered oligarch known for his patronage of sporting events. Russian boxer Zultan seems to be a stand-in for Sultan Ibragimov. And, for some weird reason, the Russian president is a look-alike of geriatric Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev.
No One Gets Left Behind: Subverted by the other characters, but Averted by Anheuser, who tries to leave thousands of refugees behind right at the doors of the Ark.
Notable Non Sequitur: Charlie tells Jackson that ordinary people like them have no chance of getting on the "spaceships," saying the only people guaranteed to do so are Bill Gates, Rupert Murdoch, or "some Russian billionaire." Turns out Jackson actually does work for a Russian billionaire.
Obstructive Bureaucrat: One of the few moments where this movie decides to be original is subverting this trope with Carl Anheuser. Initially he has all tell-tale signs of a stereotypical self-absorbed, short-sighted government official who is there to ignore Adrian's warning, but when Adrian's outburst prompts him to actually look into the latter's report, he recognizes instantly that this matter should not be red-taped.
Oh, Crap!: Every few minutes, as befits the end of the world
Our Presidents Are Different: President Wilson is both a President Personable and a President Minority, but knows he's not a President Action.
Outrun the Fireball: Or outrun the earthquake, supervolcano and tidal wave. Luckily the Earth is sufficiently polite to wait for the protagonists to reach a car, plane and ark to escape to catastrophe. Not so much for everyone else.
Pair the Spares: Subverted. It looks like Gordon and Tamara will get together but they both die instead.
Pet the Dog: Yuri is a massive Smug Snake throughout the entire film, abandoning the rest of the party, including his girlfriend and the surviving pilot who helped save his life, in the Himalayas, but selflessly gives his life to save his sons.
Anheuser is a flawed character, but he does have moments of sadness about how many people are dying, and genuinely compliments and encourages Adrian a few times, Even admitting that he was right to oppose him at the end in a deleted scene.
Precision F-Strike: "Get in the fucking car!"
Pre-Mortem Catchphrase: Charlie Frost has the Signing Off Catchphrase, "Folks, always remember, you heard it first from Charlie," which he repeats just before his death.
Product Placement:
Vault, Bentley, Huggies (Goodnites), and many, many other things.
At the global conference near the start, every single person is using the same Sony Vaio laptop.
A Chevron gas station makes a brief appearance, only to be blown up by a careening cement truck.
Prophecies Are Always Right
Re-Cut: The Blu-Ray has an alternate ending where the ship Dr. Helmsley's father was travelling on survived the tsunami.
Redemption Equals Death: Yuri.
Red Herring:
The bonding between Gordon and Tamara initially looks like Pair the Spares, only for both to later die.
The continual references to "big ships" makes one think of spaceships that are going to leave Earth. They're really just boats.
Regional Redecoration: Hoo-boy, where do we begin? Southern California is torn to shreds by an enormous earthquake, one big enough to rip open a new canyon and causes the fragmented land to sink into the ocean; Yellowstone national park is wiped out when the supervolcano erupts, Las Vegas is split in two by a huge fissure, and Hawaii is buried under miles of lava. However, the crowning moment has to be when the Earth's crust shifts. According to Adrian, it moves about 23 degrees to the southwest, which puts Wisconsin at the center of the new magnetic south pole. Conveniently, it also pushes the Himalayas close to the main characters. And during the crust shift, the African continent somehow rises several thousand feet, which saves it from the floods.
Rousing Speech: Adrian, to get the other world leaders to agree to open the doors and let the last group of refugees in, even though it could harm their ship.
Rule of Cool: The depiction of the various calamities, as well as the scene of the various species of animal being air-lifted to the arks.
When was the last time you saw a plane dodge a subway train by flying past beneath it?
Rule of Symbolism:
At the beginning of the movie, after Jackson, Noah, and Lucy sneak into the restricted area of Yellowstone, Noah asks fairly randomly "Haven't you seen the signs?" It takes place just long enough after the signs have been shown that it seems out of place and almost like a warning.
The Cristo Redentor crumbles spectacularly. See the Sistine Chapel example below.
The Arks. They even carry animals.
The Sistine Chapel crumbles and is destroyed. Guess where the ceiling splits? The crack separates Adam's finger from God's finger.
Also, just afterwards, the masses praying there are crushed by the dome when it topples from St. Peter's Square.
Jackson Curtis' son is named "Noah," and he later rescues Ark 4 from disaster.
At the end the human race all goes back to Africa, where it started out in the first place.
The White House getting destroyed by the USS John F Kennedy.
Running Gag:
Jackson: "I'm on my way toward you/hurtling toward you as we speak!"
Jackson's daughter and her obsession with fun hats.
Played tragically by all the desperate farewell phone calls cut short by impacting disasters.
The various references to Wisconsin throughout the film; first from an old lady at the beginning who regrets moving from there, it becoming the new location of the South Pole at the end of the film, as well as being mentioned in the last sentence of Jackson's novel.
Russian Guy Suffers Most: All Russian characters who are not children, dogs, or politicians bite the dust sooner or later.
Say Your Prayers: The President of Italy remains behind at the Vatican, taking part in a prayer circle led by the Pope, rather than evacuate himself.
Scenery Gorn:
Most of the planet. As seen at the top of the page, Emmerich pays particular attention to the destruction of Los Angeles. From all the downtown skyscrapers toppling, massive cracks opening, and chunks of landscape sliding into the sea as seen in the poster above and trailer.
A review said the only thing Emmerich did not destroy was the Columbia Pictures logo at the beginning, which was considered a missed opportunity.
Sexy Backless Outfit: Tamara in her first appearance.
Shoot the Shaggy Dog: Gordon tries his best to be a good stepfather to Jackson's children, as well as getting on well with Jackson himself, and he manages to use his minimal flying experience to pilot several drastically different aircraft, and is never anything less than cooperative with the other characters. His reward is death and Jackson's family later reuniting.
Shout-Out: The film contains various references to the The Bible.
During the destruction of the Sistine Chapel, the cracks forming on the roof directly between God and Adam in the Creation of Adam symbolize two aspects related to the Bible: the transition between the first and second circles of life (specifically, breaking the connection between humans and God) and God's reversal of creation of humanity in Chapters 6-9 in the Book of Genesis.
The Biblical flood: Jackson's son is named Noah, the cruise ship (where Adrian's father Harry performs) is called Genesis (the book in the Bible in which the account appears), and humanity is saved by the use of "arks". At one point we also see animals being lifted aboard the arks.
Smug Snake: Yuri. He desmonstrates his lack of gratefulness for Sasha's sacrifice by bringing up that he knew he was Tamara's lover and giving a Large Ham, highly insincere "may God bless that poor bastard's soul!"
Spreading Disaster Map Graphic: Towards the end, on-screen graphics in the ark control room depict the massive waves closing in Asia and other continents.
Stealth Hi/Bye: Both of Jackson's kids appear to have perfected the art of teleportation. In two separate screens he explicitly tells them to stay put, and with no indication the kid have moved they abruptly appear next to him a few scenes later.
Super Cell Reception:
Empire Magazine's review includes this response to Emmerich's "wilfully ignoring science to keep the plot boiling": "For future reference, sudden continental drift probably will affect your cellphone reception." And even if it doesn't, good luck getting through when literally the whole world is trying to call someone.
A cell phone that gets reception from inside a metal ship buried under the Himalayas off in an undeveloped, rural corner of Tibet. After it has been explicitly stated that the apocalypse has knocked out nearly all communications.
Super Drowning Skills: Played straight with Tamara, who gets sealed in a room rapidly filling with water.
Take That!: A very lazy shot at Arnold Schwarzenegger ("He's an actor - he's reading from a script!"). There is a veritable myriad of take-thats in the film, but there's so many that it's kind of hard to pinpoint them all. Western civilization? Religion? Rich people? Russians?
Take That, Critics!: A subtle one can be found in the adoration John Cusack's character's Sci-Fi book gets. In the movie, the book sells barely 432 copies because critics found its ridiculously Cosy Catastrophe view of the world to be insufferable and unrealistic, yet major characters (the president's science adviser included!) find it be a source of great inspiration. Director Roland Emmerich also made The Day After Tomorrow, which was criticized for being offensively preachy and silly in the levels of Cosy Catastrophe it brought to the screen.
Talking Is a Free Action: Characters ramble on for minutes without any noticeable difference between the time they got started and the time they finished, usually minutes later. Standouts include Adrian's speech on the Ark and Jackson getting ready to unplug the gears.
Tempting Fate: Many times. See Dramatic Irony.
Teetering on the Edge: When the protagonists reach the China mountains, they have to make a rough landing due running out of fuel. Sasha stays on the plane to keep it level while everyone evacuates via the cars on the plane when it low enough to eject out the cargo hold safely. Sasha manages to land the plane safe enough that it skids to the edge of a mountain and stops. He himself chuckling at his good luck... then the plane proceeds to tilt over the edge, crash and explode; killing him.
Throwaway Country: Sometimes played straight, sometimes subverted - e.g., India and China are given considerable focus beyond being nature's Chew Toy. Canada possibly fits this trope too. The world leaders conference at the beginning is held in British Columbia, and Canada is mentioned as having survivors on board one of the Arks.
Title by Year: 2009 Disaster Movie based on the prediction that the world would end on December 21st, 2012
Twenty-Fifth Amendment: Floated, then immediately ripped up.
Uncertain Doom: Various characters who aren't evacuated to the Arks. It does seem like a stretch that the various disasters killed every single other person on earth besides The Africans, but it's doubtful that there were many left. This is lampshaded after Tony loses connection with his son and granddaughterr as an earthquake hits Japan and Harry tells him to hold out hope that they might have evaluated somewhere. And then there's the Genesis itself when it's hit, but not explicitly destroyed, by a giant wave just minutes later.
Ungrateful Bastard: Adrian accuses Anheuser of this after finding out that Satnam and his family, the ones who first discovered the danger in the first place and warned him, weren't evacuated, although there is some ambiguity over whose fault this was.
Viewer-Friendly Interface: Both played straight (the computers on the arks with 3D, real-time representations of the gears for the doors) and averted (the scientist who discovers the end is near uses Vista, and everyone else who's not an Ark operator).
Well-Intentioned Extremist: Say what you like about Anheuser, but he genuinely wanted humanity and civilisation to survive the planetary upset.
What Happened to the Mouse?: The president for some reason searches for a girl's father instead of seeing the full damage that happens to the capital. The girl's father gets forgotten a few minutes after he gets outside, not that it mattered with the wave.
What Measure Is a Mook?: Or an unnamed character.
What Measure Is a Non-Cute?: Averted with Tamara.
What You Are in the Dark:
Tenzin, a worker on the Ark who made arrangements for a secret passage that would save his family, accepts putting the plan at risk when confronted with Jackson and his family when his grandmother points out that they are all children of God, when he could have argued that his plan was too risky even with just them never mind with more people involved.
Yuri may have abandoned his cheating mistress, but he acts to save his children over himself in the final moments.
Adrian Helmsley quotes Jackson when he observes that "The moment we stop fighting for each other, that's when we lose our humanity", reinforcing that what matters in a crisis like this is humanity's compassion for each other rather than making purely pragmatic choices, which inspires all the other world leaders to open the gates of the Arks and try and let more people in even if it puts their current passengers at risk.
You Have to Believe Me!:
Jackson: (having a phone conversation with Kate while speeding towards her home) Kate, stop what you’re doing.
Kate: (confused) Jackson?
Jackson: Listen to me, I’ve rented a plane. Pack up the kids. I’ll be there in five minutes.
Kate: (dismissive) What are you talking about? We’re going about our regular Saturday. Noah has music at 2, and Lily has karate.
Jackson: Kate, California is going down! Pack up the kids, now!
Kate: They just got back! God, you sound like a crazy person; the Governor just said we’re fine now.
Jackson: The guy’s an actor; he’s reading a script! When they tell you not to panic, that’s when you run!
Kate: Look, call me back when you calm down, huh? (hangs up)
Your Princess Is in Another Castle!: Jackson, after finding out that the ships are in China.
Jackson: We're gonna need a bigger plane.

Comic Book / Fall of Cthulhu
"The silent hordes of sleeping Cthulhu are stirring, their arms raised in war against great Nodens and his heathen ilk. Their war will wake the Old One and usher in an age of darkness."
If the bigger they are, the harder they fall, then what happens when the gods themselves fall?
Fall Of Cthulhu is a comic book series published by Boom! Studios and based on the works of H. P. Lovecraft. The series follows a few unfortunate mortals as they're entangled in the conspiracies and manipulations of the Great Old Ones and the Outer Gods, who prepare for war against Nodens and the Elder Gods, and the apocalypse that will inevitably ensue. Said characters include academic turned mental patient Cy Morgan (whose uncle's research introduces the plot), Brazilian street rat Luci Jenifer Inacio das Neves (a.k.a. Lucifer), local sheriff in over his head Raymond Dirk, and lastly, the enigmatic hostel owner Mr. Arkham.
In its own way, the comic acts as a Crisis Crossover for the Cthulhu Mythos, gathering the classic elements from Lovecraft's fiction to mingle with whole new creations. Furthermore, each artist on the title brings his or her own brand of slightly off-kilter illustration, including subtle, yet effective Art Shifts whenever the bewildered human characters are dropped into the Dreamlands.
In addition to the first volume, Fall Of Cthulhu continues in two miniseries (Godwars and Apocalypse) and has spawned three spin-offs: Cthulhu Tales, a Lovecraft-grounded anthology title, Hexed, continuing Lucifer's misadventures in eldritch thieving, and a proper sequel, The Calling: The Cthulhu Chronicles.
This series provides examples of:
Ambiguously Gay: While it's debatable whether either of them have genders or the ability to have sex, it APPEARS that the Masked Mute and the Harlot are... shall we say close?
And I Must Scream: Connor's fate more than likely, as to become a vessel for the Gith has his brain surgically removed from his body with his eyes still connected then placed in a jar and, after the brawl at the bar, Nyarlathotep places said jar in front of a mirror so that he can look on in horror as punishment. Throw in the fact that the Gith more than likely dies in the Godwar and we never hear of Connor again we can only assume he spent the rest of his existence in horror as a disembodied brain.
The Adjectival Man: The Gray Man
Art Shift: A secondary artist was on-board during the comic's first volume specifically to illustrate the Dreamland sequences.
Awesome Mc Coolname: Luci Jenifer Inacio das Neves. Or Lucifer, for short.
Batman Gambit: This is the Harlot's preferred method of conspiracy. It helps that by being a keeper of secrets, she can sit back, relax, and wait for some desperate human to stumble into the Dreamlands looking for her help.
Big Bad: Mr. Arkham, A.K.A. Nyarlathotep.
Blue-and-Orange Morality: Unsurprisingly. In particular, Nodens stand out because he is neither a Great Old One nor an Outer God. Of the mythos, he is perhaps closest to humanity, being one of our gods, yet his "morality" is entirely centered around hunting and he seens nothing wrong with hunting humans if they're good sport.
Body Horror: Hope you don't have any paranoia about Morgellons disease◊.
Brain in a Jar: Played literally with Connor.
Canon Foreigner: The Harlot, the Grey Man, Gith, the Masked Mute, Sysyphyx (and her son) are all new creations by the comic's writer, although they fit well enough aside Lovecraft's designs that no one notices.
Chekhov's Gun: The knife's only the most obvious one. It's far less important than the Harlot's boxes, or Nyarlathotep's true name.
Composite Character: Nodens acts the way Lovecraft wrote him, but the final issue adds a lot of elements of Poseidon, such as wielding a trident rather than a spear and having an underwater throne attended by merfolk.
Corruption of a Minor: One issue featured a young boy going to a comic book shop for his birthday, and getting a "special present" from a very sexy woman: an empty box. It later turns out the box held the spirit of Gnruk of Vol' Kunast, who invades the boy's soul, slowly driving him psychotic until transforming him into a bat-like monstrosity.
Cosmic Horror Story: Almost. We get right to the starting line of the God War, until the Harlot trumps Nyarlathotep's schemes and manages to avert great Cthulhu's awakening, all because she likes to play with humanity.
Covers Always Lie: Not only does Cthulhu not fall, he's little more than a Macguffin in the storyline, with a one-page cameo.
Creepy Child: Jason used to be a normal kid who wanted to read a cool comic book. Then Sysyphyx gave him a box with nothing in it. Now Jason is going to learn how to fly....
The Masked Mute, Sister of the Lost Abyss, looks like a regular female adolescent wearing a spooky mask, until you see what's behind it.
Deal with the Devil: The Harlot is the keeper of secrets, and she'll give you the answers you seek... but always for a price:
Cy initially gives her his wisdom teeth in exchange for an answer, and then willingly gives up his whole body and climbs into one of her "boxes". He gets better... err, as better as one can get in a full-fledged Cthulhu story.
Dirk gets one of the more heartbreaking ones, when in exchange for the location of the Gray Man's ceremonial blade, the Harlot takes all the memories of his dead wife. This saves his life later when a shapeshifter attempts to fatally distract him by taking the form of his wife. He doesn't know who tho woman is, doesn't care, and kills the shapeshifter.
Dream Land: The titular Dreamlands, imported Lovecraft's other mythos. It's the primary stomping ground of the Outer Gods, the Harlot, and Nodens, and is accompanied by a trippy Art Shift in-comic.
Driven to Suicide: Happens no less than three times in the first volume alone! Raymond averts this in Apocalypse, but only because his gun was out of bullets.
Egomaniac Hunter: Nodens, arguably. He gets the wiggle room by account of him being an Elder God and thus, celestially opposed to the Old Ones and Outer Gods like Cthulhu and Nyarlathotep.
Eldritch Abomination: It has Cthulhu's name in the title, folks. Do the math.
Fate Worse than Death: Implied or outright stated to occur to most of the principal cast. Only Dirk seems to avoid it. And Lucifer is ultimately saved from this in Hexed.
Flat "What": Delivered by Nyarlathotep, even.
Gambit Pileup: All the gods think they're playing each other like a fiddle, but in the end, it's the Harlot who plays the best instrument of all. Fortunately, she finds humanity amusing and would rather have us alive.
Gambit Roulette: What the Harlot's grand scheme looks like after the conclusion of Apocalypse. Justified, for she's an Eldritch Abomination that makes it her business to know everybody's secrets, including the gods'.
Go Mad from the Revelation: The entire series starts after Cy's Uncle Walt has already done so, and by the end of the first storyarc Cy has gone off the deep end as well.
The Harlot averts this with Lucifer as punishment, showing her how the world will end, but leaving her her sanity.
Dirk goes a little Ax-Crazy on R'lyeh.
Grand Theft Me: Sysyphyx can possess people by replacing their skull and spine, and the Gith took on Connor's body as a vessel.
Grandpa God: Nodens, per Lovecraft's original description in the short story The Strange High House In The Mist.
Horsemen of the Apocalypse: Downplayed. While they don't correspond to the original horsemen (other than Gith, who's pestilence), mr. Arkham gathers four beings that help him bring about the awakening of Cthulhu. Gith, the Masked Mute, Sysyphyx and Gnruk.
Hunting the Most Dangerous Game: The true impetus of the story is due to the Elder God Nodens wanting to hunt the biggest game of 'em all — Cthulhu! Except Cthulhu's the bait, and Nyarlathotep the real prey.
Nodens' followers are also prone to doing this, as seen in the first volume, when they release a man into the woods so that they can hunt him down.
I Have Many Names: Stated almost verbatim by Mr. Arkham in the first chapter. Three guesses as to who Mr. Arkham really is.
I Know Your True Name: Downplayed. A true name in the mythos can only really be used to summon the being, not control it. Mr. Arkham also drives Cy mad with the name of himself, Nyarlathotep. This ends up biting him in the ass, as in the final issue Nyarlathotep sends Cy to the court of Azathoth, planning on having Cy draw the Daemon Sultan's attention to earth. Thanks to the Harlot's guidance, Cy instead uses Nyarlathotep's true name to summon him back there.
Implacable Man: The Gray Man, the "patron saint" of human sacrifice. All he needs to do is breathe on you, and you won't be looking in the mirror anytime soon.
Laser-Guided Amnesia: The Harlot takes Raymond Dirk's memories of his dead wife as payment for the information he needs. When Ray returns from the Dreamlands, he doesn't recognize the woman on the pictures in his wallet.
It ends up saving his life when Sysyphyx impersonates his wife to confuse him. Not remembering his wife, he has no problem killing the lookalike.
Living Bodysuit: Mr. Arkham, the oddly benevolent man who aids Cy in the first chapters, is none other than Nyarlathotep, the Crawling Chaos.
Lovecraft Country: Arkham, Massachusetts, of course.
Madness Mantra: In the second storyarc, a young boy named Jason keeps muttering the words "knees first, head second" after opening a box given to him by a very pretty lady. This turns out to be instructions on how to kill someone with a baseball bat.
Pet the Dog: Lucifer, the Harlot's heir, gives Dirk back his memory of his wife.
Police Are Useless: Somewhat justified in that "An ancient god is awakening" is a hard story to sell to the cops, but the police in issue #3 refused to believe that someone would break into Cy's house just to steal his uncle's research.
Sarcastic Devotee: Connor, Mr. Arkham's right hand man.
Street Urchin: Lucifer could either live (and get killed) as a pick-pocket in Rio, or go to work assisting a professor gaining the attention of the Great Old Ones. Unfortunately, she chose the only path worse than being killed in a Brazilian gang war.
The Unreveal: The identity of the girl in the crowd. She's the one behind everything.
Unusually Uninteresting Sight: You'd think a mother would frown on her seven year old receiving a gift from a woman whose breasts are barely contained in her corset. You'd be wrong, apparently.
What Happened to the Mouse?: The Gith simply vanishes from the story shortly after the arrival in R'lyeh.
Your Approval Fills Me with Shame: Said word for word by Dirk after his considerably more racist and sexist coworker approves of his plan.

YMMV / Fall of Cthulhu
Complete Monster:
Fall of Cthulhu: Nyarlathotep himself seamlessly arranges every single wrong in the comic for the purpose of unleashing his master Azathoth unto the universe. Having spent centuries walking among mankind among disasters and people he's Driven to Madness, Nyarlathotep spends hundreds of years arranging for the events of the Godwar between him and Nodens, intending to raise Cthulhu and use the ensuing chaos to draw forth Azathoth. To this end, Nyarlathotep, under the guise of "Mr. Arkham," gradually drives the town of Arkham into increasing insanity, ruining the life of Cy Morgan before having him tortured and leaving his insane form as almost an afterthought. Bringing his followers into the world one-by-one through the deaths of others, Nyarlathotep in particular has a seven-year-old child driven to homicidal insanity before having his form mutated and infested by one of his followers after having both his parents killed. Among his other cruel actions, Nyarlathotep hypnotizes the residents of a bar to burn themselves alive; hideously deforms the face of sheriff Raymond Dirk and threatens to torture master thief Lucifer; and has the brain of his human follower Connor painfully extracted and set up to look in a mirror until he's driven insane, unable to move or die. The exemplary point of Nyarlathotep's manipulations is outlined in the prequel comic Nemesis, where, solely to eliminate worship of a rival god, Nyarlathotep drives the population of Atlantis to frenzy through his followers and influence, has their king driven to savagery and eventually publicly executed by his own brother, and then sacrifices the entire city to the Deep Ones on a whim, keeping the sole survivor trapped in the form of a cat he dubs Nemesis to stand by him forever. Nyarlathotep perpetuates torture, suicide, and insanity around him wherever he goes, relishing chaos itself and striving for nothing less than to drive all humanity insane for kicks before eradicating them.
The Calling: Cthulhu Chronicles: Abisso Nero is a reclusive fashion mogul who is in actuality the leader of a nebulous cult striving to free Cthulhu and end the universe by folding eleven dimensions into one. To this end, Nero and his cult abduct and indoctrinate children who have been "Chosen," using their bodies to unleash latent psychic energy to tear a hole in reality through the other members of his cult— all hooked on a conduit disguised as a miracle drug called Briten. The last attempt at this resulted in nearly 2,000 fatalities. Undeterred, Nero has his messenger Henry MacNamara killed and forcefully recruits another young child named Gregor—slaughtering his mother in front of him—and trying to use him in yet another attempt to destroy the universe, the final result which results in the torturous death of every member of his cult. Not even his own family is safe from his machinations; it's revealed that years before, Nero arranged the kidnapping of his own son Stefano and had him forcibly indoctrinated overseas for two years. Nero proves that even in a universe of nightmarish, eldritch horrors, humanity can be every bit as vile as the horrific gods they worship.
Hexed has Yves. See that page for more details.
Ensemble Dark Horse: The Harlot, a green-skinned mutant of a woman in a doll's outfit, is probably the closest we'll ever get to Fan Disservice in a Lovecraft story. That she out-manuevered Nyarlathotep and manipulated the entire cast might have something to do with it, too.
Magnificent Bitch: The Harlot, the Humanoid Abomination that serves as the Keeper of Secrets, was once a mortal human named Fastrada who took on the role of Keeper to save the life of her daughter. The Harlot knows nearly every secret in reality, and demands prices for those who barter with her for her knowledge, anything from precious memories to their very sanity. The Harlot schemes against the wicked Nyarlathotep and gives Cy Morgan the knowledge of the one thing that can vanish Nyarlathotep—the invocation of his true name—and waits until the crucial moment of Nyaralthotep's victory to reveal this, utterly derailing the Crawling Chaos' sprawling plan and sending him screaming back to Azathoth. The Harlot trains master thief Lucifer to become her successor, and even when the position of Keeper of Secrets is briefly usurped from her, the Harlot manages to see the thief slain by Lucifer and passes away as Fastrada, at absolute peace with herself.

Manga / A.I. Love You
A.I. Love You is a manga series by author Ken Akamatsu. First released in the mid-1990's in Japan, an English translation of the series is published by Tokyopop, and a French one by Pika Editions; the first volume came out in North America and France in February and May 2004 respectively.
It tells the tale of Hitoshi Koube, who is neither academically gifted nor good at sports, so he does not do well at school. His true skill is at programming computers, to the point that he can make self-modifying programs — true artificial intelligence. He has created thirty such programs, and the latest one — named Saati — is so advanced that conversation with her is indistinguishable from a normal girl and, thus, would easily pass the Turing test. So he has an intangible girlfriend. Yay.
Things go kind of sideways (as most series of this type tend to do) when a freak lightning strike causes Saati to materialize into the real world...
The basic plotline is derivative of the Kousuke Fujishima manga Ah! My Goddess, with the AI constructs being analogous to the goddess characters of the earlier manga. The setting also bears similarities to the John Hughes film Weird Science. Both feature male protagonists creating their ideal girlfriends on computers and both girls are brought into the real world via lightning, bearing somewhat superhuman powers. Despite these obvious similarities however, Akamatsu claims not to have seen the film prior to creating the series.
This series contains examples of:
Alpha Bitch: Kimika Aso
Art Evolution: Later volumes in this series resemble early volumes of Love Hina.
Attempted Rape: In Chapter 29, Forty-chan and then Saati wander into a H-Game where a perverted otaku very nearly has their way with them until Hitoshi saves them by making Forty-chan say "boy" so she switches into Forty-kun and he gets himself and Saati out of the game.
Author Appeal: Akamatsu has stated that Saati has such prominent eyebrows because he finds them attractive.
Back for the Finale: Hacker Billy-G, the main antagonist during the first part of the series, disappears after creating a back-up copy of Saati in chapter 20. He finally comes back in the last chapter (55), where he uses the back-up to save the real Saati from deletion, unbeknownst to everyone.
Beach Episode: Chapter 4, 31.5 and 44 are about the main cast going to have fun at the beach.
Beauty Contest: There's one in Volume 8 where Hitoshi's sister Yayoi participates and wins.
Become a Real Boy: In the final arc, it's revealed Saati is in the process of evolving into a truly human girl, but it's subverted as she decides to stay an A.I. to defeat Spider-Zero.
Christmas Episode: Chapter 23 and 36 take place in Christmas.
Chuck Cunningham Syndrome: Alpha Bitch Kimika Aso was a antagonist of volume 1 and two chapters of volume 2 and after that she is never seen again.
Do Androids Dream?
Does This Remind You of Anything?: Chapter 50 has Saati and Toeni going through "that time of the month" where they get tired easily and need to spend a whole day resting inside the computer. It's their maintenance day where they need to organize their data and get rid of the waste. To make the subtext even more blatant, when Forty has her first maintenance day, Saati cooks red bean ricenote .
Excited Show Title!: The original Japanese title ends in an exclamation mark.
Expy: Saati (Thirty) is obviously the Expy of Belldandy. Then, when Keiichi (Hitoshi) gets more girls, Twenty (Saati's big sister) is analoguous to Urd, while Forty (little sister) is analogous to Skuld (though Forty gets a bit of a Gender Bender gimmick like Ranma).
For the Evulz: Pretty much why Kimika Aso antagonizes Hitoshi and later Saati.
The Glomp: Happens in Chapter 3 when Hitoshi agrees to introduce Saati to all the clubs.
Groin Attack: The best example is in Chapter 35, which revolves around this trope. In frustration over Hitoshi's constant perviness, Toeni and Saati challenge him to go an entire day without getting aroused. They do this by placing him in a high tech chastity belt that has a little priest with a paddle over the crotch; if it detects a 'stirring in the loins' so to speak, poor Hitoshi gets whacked, and on the last activation the belt will detonate. Toeni sets it to 30 activations, claiming that nobody's that much of a sex fiend, but Hitoshi proves her wrong in the most painful way; getting whacked 14 times in just the morning. Eventually, he makes it through the day with one activation left... until Toeni challenges him to find the key to the belt hidden somewhere on Saati's body. Predictably, his groin then goes nuclear.
Hair Antennae
Hollywood Hacking: The lifeblood of this series. Forget everything you know about computers, or you will start crying and never stop.
Honest Axe: Hitoshi throws his computer out of the window, and Saati and Twenty fall into the roles of the water sprites, asking him if he dropped an old 286 or a new Pentium. He lies, claiming that it was the Pentium.
Lethal Chef: Early in Saati's cooking lessons, her sole experience with food is looking at pictures of the finished product, not realizing that the dishes must be made of edible ingredients.
She cooks using things like watercolor paints and dish detergent.
Lightning Can Do Anything: Computers getting hit by electricity causes A.I. programs to come to life instead of a short circuit.
Literally Shattered Lives: What happens to Toeni and Forty in the final chapter after Spider-Zero destroys their core programs.
Magical Computer: Good adherence to the hardware of its time, but that just makes the magic more ridiculous. Although the use of 5-1/4" floppies instead of 3-1/2" is... borderline.
Magical Girlfriend: Saati.
Marshmallow Hell: Although one Beach Chapter featured... well... Pie Hell.
The Pie Hell returns in Love Hina. Keitaro gets a faceful of Naru's panties more than once...through no fault of his own. That's not how she sees it, however...
Muggle-and-Magical Love Triangle: In the penultimate volume, Hitoshi has to choose between his A.I. Magical Girlfriend Saati and the human Hollywood actress Cindy.
Multi-Gendered Split Personalities: Before Forty was ready, Saati and Toeni argued about the gender and personality and pressed too many buttons at once. The end result is an A.I. that has two modes: a male personality and a female personality within a female body - when Forty-kun says "girl", he becomes Forty-chan, when Forty-chan says "boy", she becomes Forty-kun.
Nosebleed
One-Note Cook: Once Saati learns how to cook, she can only make curry, no matter how hard she tries to not make curry.
Pet Baby Wild Animal: In Chapter 38, Forty-kun looks after an injured wolf cub who he names Poochie. Since many hunters are after the cub because it belongs to an officially extinct species, Forty-kun and his sisters teleport Poochie to a safe place where the cub can join a new pack.
Phenotype Stereotype: Cindy, the forward, Genki Girl American actress.
Pun-Based Title: "Ai" is the Japanese word for "love." In Japanese, "A.I. ga Tomaranai" is pronounced as "Love won't Stop." As for the English title, A.I. is pronounced like the letter I, and the second letter being "I" just completes the phrase "I love you", as well as referring to Artificial Intelligence.
Pygmalion Plot: The premise of the series. The computer programmer Hitoshi doesn't have any luck with women, so he creates his dream girlfriend in the form of an A.I. named Saati (Program No. 30). On a night of storm, the electricity causes Saati to come out of the computer so she can become Hitoshi's real girlfriend.
Raging Stiffie: Hitoshi is the human 'bar' in a beach limbo contest with Saati and the others. When her turn comes round, he's set so low that she's grinding against him - then her boobs get in the way. He lifts up to let her pass, but not before his resultant tentpole nearly wangs (sorry) her in the face. Cue Naru Punch.
Robot Girl: In order of creation: Toeni, No.29, Saati, Peter-Saati (A.I. Memory, Please come back!), Forty, Forty-kun/Forty-chan, and No. 31.
School Play: Volume 7 has one portraying The Little Mermaid with Hitoshi as the prince, Saati as the mermaid and Cindy as the human princess who marries the prince.
Sex Comedy: While it starts out as a comedy of the Unlucky Everydude getting a Magical Girlfriend and asks the questions on What Measure Is a Non-Human?, it eventually devolved mostly into a ton of fanservice, jokes on sex and Flanderization of Hitoshi being turned more into a pervert.
Shout-Out:
"But what's causing this Ranma complex of hers?" Here, top left.
To Final Fantasy, as usual.
Sibling Triangle: Volume 2 has Saati's older sister Toeni trying to steal their creator Hitoshi from her since Toeni was technically Hitoshi's girlfriend first.
Siblings Wanted: Chapter 26 has Saati and Toeni asking Hitoshi to create a new A.I. so they can get a younger sibling. The problem is Saati wants a little sister while Toeni wants a little brother. The two end up messing with the new A.I. Hitoshi had under production and create Forty, an A.I. with a case of Multi-Gendered Split Personalities.
Sick Episode: Chapter 5 which starts with Hitoshi sick in bed and after he recovers, Saati catches a virus from the internet that soon threatens to erase her completely.
Spot the Imposter: In Chapter 25, all of Hitoshi's early programs come to life, including a Flawed Prototype of Saati. Hitoshi can figure out which of the two Saatis is the fake one when he rubs their boobs and only the real Saati slaps him.
Technopath: Saati.
Title Drop: On the last page, but you need to know the Japanese title (A.I. ga Tomaranai — "A.I. Won't Stop") to get it.
Tsundere: In later volumes, Saati becomes a more obvious proto-Naru.
Unexplained Recovery: At the end of the final chapter, it's shown Hitoshi somehow restored the core programs of Saati, Toeni and Forty after they were erased by Spider-Zero. All explanation we get is Ma-kun calling it a miracle.
Unwanted Harem: Averted. Unlike the works Akamatsu later became known for, Hitoshi only has one love interest despite having two other A.I. girls living with him and the human girls who interact with him rarely stay around for more than one chapter. The only girl who was ever real competition for Saati shows up until one of the last volumes.
What Happened to the Mouse?: In volume 3, the hacker Billy-G gets away with the data to replicate the method to bring A.I. to life and can create his own Saati, yet he never shows up again except to make a Villainous Rescue in the very final chapter. The authour did admit he left this as a Sequel Hook for a potential continuation that never happened.
What Measure Is a Non-Human?
Worth It: Hitoshi makes Saati feel herself up with his VR arm controller - beatdowns ensue, but he concludes that it was totally worth it.
You Are Number 6: The A.I. characters are all named after the Japanese pronunciation of their program number. "Saati" from Thirty, "Toeni" from Twenty , and Forty/Foti. Their surname, "Namba", come from pronouncing Number.

YMMV / A.I. Love You
Creator's Pet: Cindy. Akamatsu says as much in that volume's interviews, and visually, she's even more of a proto-Naru than Saati is.
The Scrappy: Forty. Does he/she have any sense of reason? (This childishness gets worse over the course of the series, even visually — toward the end, the female Forty looks about six years old.)

Anime / Jewelpet Kira Deco!
Jewelpet Kira☆Deco! is the fourth entry in the Jewelpet anime.
Ruby, Garnet, Sapphie, Labra and Angela lead average lives in Jewel Town. One day, Sapphie discovers a book about their Creation Myth; Jewelina created the Jewelpets because she wanted someone to dance with. It is said that that was a time filled with joy. Unfortunately, one day a meteorite struck the Mirror Ball which shone down on Jewel Land alongside the two moons, and it broke into innumerable shards which scattered all across the world. Jewelina turned to stone out of sheer sorrow, and has remained like that ever since.
Hearing about the story prompts Ruby and her pals to go search for the Mirror Ball's shards, with little success. But that night, a meteorite comes out of a vortex and crashes near. From it, five young humans, called the Kira Deco 5, emerge, and reveal that they too are searching for the shards, called Deco Stones, in order to save the human world from the Eternal Darkness. So the team and the Jewelpets team up and start their quest.
Opposing them are the evil organisation known as Decoranain, whose members include Coal, Ruby's rival Opal and her lackey Io, as well as their mysterious boss, the Dark General.
Tropes:
Androcles' Lion: In episode 44, a baby bison that Kiichi takes care of brings him a Deco Stone. Unfortunately, the bad guys get it in the end.
Age Lift: In European dubs, the Kira Deco 5 (minus Midori, who stayed 8-9) are in high school instead of middle school for unknown reasons. For this reason, Pink's dream of going to high school changes to going to college.
Aliens Steal Cable: Jewel Land's TV moon is mooching off the human world's TV, converted to 3-D for the Jewel Landians' enjoyment. This becomes important as it's the characters' main way of knowing what's happening in the human world.
All Just a Dream: The New Year's episode.
Or Was It a Dream?: Unfortunately, the Ruby clones are still real; as they are seen sleeping on Ruby's bed.
All Planets Are Earth-Like: At least in this universe, Jewel Land is part of a continent on the Jewel Planet. Sweetsland is a neighbouring country.
Balloon Belly
Pink and Ruby get one after eating Blue's cooking.
In episode 9, the main cast literally turns into balls after eating magical broad beans.
Beach Episode: Episode 15.
Big Ball of Violence: In episode 44, Kohaku causes Pink, Midori and four of the mascots to get into one of these, and the ball rolls all the way from Jewel Town until the deserted town where Sapphie and Kiichi are.
Bittersweet Ending: The Mirror Ball is fully repaired; Jewelina is revived and a new Jewelpet, Rossa, is born. Decoranain is defeated and the Dark General and Coal reform. But the Kira Deco 5 also have to leave for their own world and there isn't much of a chance for them to drop by and visit, meaning it's goodbye for good.
Came from the Sky: In a curious inversion from the usual way this plays out, the audience spends the first episode watching the Jewelpets go about their life in Jewel Land; the Kira Deco 5, who're humans, are the weirdos who arrive on a meteor and put the main quest in motion.
Camping Episode: Episode 36.
Chained Heat: Ruby and Opal accidentally glue their rears together (how this is possible when Ruby clearly had glue in her hand but not her butt when she crashed into Opal isn't explained) in episode 14. Said glue is stated to have effects lasting for 100 years but they manage to get out of it through a whole bottle of solvent and heaps of sheer determination.
Chekhov's Gun: The ladle that Ruby finds but never picks up in episode 1 turns out to be a Deco Stone in the last episode. As well as a slew of random, nondescript objects that show up in other episodes, but the ladle is given more significance.
The stone fists that sometimes descend on the characters to punish them for their idiocy are also revealed to be Deco Stones.
Christmas Episode: Episode 38.
City of Adventure: Jewel Town.
Cloudcuckooland: Jewel Land. Prepare some brain bleach when watching some episodes.
Colony Drop: Jewel Town seems to be in constant danger of being hit by meteors, but the Jewelpets can usually deal with them through magic.
Cooking Duel: Episode 5. Garnet and Opal compete against each other for Blue Knight in three duels. The first one is a subverted literal cooking duel, where both give orders to Blue Knight to prepare something and whomever he obeys wins; turns out he can't cook and simply puts fresh fish in a plate, which makes Garnet the winner since it pleases her. The second one is a duel of clothes making; Opal wins because Garnet sheared Angela's wool and Blue Knight felt sorry for her. The third one is considerably less goofy; a jewel contest where Garnet wins because she stayed up all night to obtain her jewel, therefore proving that she really does care for Blue Knight.
Courtroom Episode: Episode 39 is about Angela and Labra being put on trial for being terrible cops after Angela crosses the line by exploding someone's house. Angela is sentenced to a millennium in jail, while Labra gets out of it and goes searching for proof that Angela isn't guilty.
Culture Clash: In episode 30, the gang visits Paradise Town, where jewels and what is normally considered beautiful are regarded as worthless and things like toilet paper rolls are thought of as high class objects.
Dance Party Ending: How it ends, with Decorina living up to her established party girl personality and throwing a party where everyone takes part.
Dancing Theme: The ED, with a CGI Ruby dancing to the music.
Death from Above: Played for laughs with the stone fists that descend from orbit.
Dismantled MacGuffin: The Mirror Ball that belongs to Jewelina and supposedly gives her her power was broken into many pieces in the backstory, and the goal of the heroes is to repair it.
Excited Show Title!
Extendo Boxing Glove: In episode 2, Pink suffers the brunt of the police station's security system in this way.
Fairy Tale Episode: Episode 40 is an amalgam of various fairy tales, myths and ancient literature, dreamed up by Ruby. Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood and Journey to the West are the major parodies with various others getting one scene. The plot is about how Ruby/Cinderella goes through adventures before being taken to the ball.
Fartillery:a few examples all done unintentionally.
In episode 42 Coal accidentally farts on both Labra and Opal knocking the latter out.
In episode 49 Ruby accidentally farts on Diana knocking her out.
Festival Episode: Episode 19.
Feud Episode: Episode 17, between Opal and Io when the latter seems to be giving more attention to Coarumi than Opal.
In episode 21, Pink and Ruby fight over their embarrassing photographs that were exposed to the public.
Five-Man Band: The Kira Deco 5 are a classic one.
The Leader: Retsu (hot blooded and heroic in an old-school way)
The Lancer: Blue Knight (cool personality which contrasts with Retsu; is also his rival)
The Big Guy: Kiichi (fat, slow and sturdy)
The Smart Guy: Midori (intelligent but physically inferior)
The Chick: Pink (only girl, useless in a fight, but good with magic)
Four Is Death: The elite members of Decoranain (Kaiser, Dian, Tour, Kohaku) are four and known as Shitennou/Four Heavenly Kings.
Four-Philosophy Ensemble: The Kira Deco 5. Pink is the realist, Retsu is the optimist, Blue Knight is apathetic, Midori is the cynic and Kiichi is conflicted.
Four-Temperament Ensemble: The Kira Deco 5 boys - Retsu is sanguine (cheerful and optimistic but unfocused), Midori is choleric (vindictive, hot-headed planner), Blue Knight is melancholic (quiet and aloof from the team) and Kiichi is phlegmatic (friendly, peaceful and relaxed). Pink can be added in as the all-purpose leukine temperament.
Fourth Date Marriage: Kaiser talks with Ruby and Pink about marriage few days after their first meeting.
Fun Size: Jewel Town is built for the Jewelpets' size, which poses a problem for humans.
Gilligan Cut: In episode 16, Ruby shouts that no one will sleep tonight in order to guard the Deco Stones. She and the other Jewelpets are all sleeping in futons in the following shot.
Go Mad from the Isolation: When the Jewelpets get lost at the deserted island in episode 15 and can't find a way to go back, they go insane and become feral. The Kira Deco 5 find them and manage to snap them out of it.
Gotta Catch 'Em All: The quest for the Deco Stones, which number hundreds of thousands.
Go-Karting with Bowser: The main cast relaxes around Opal and Io (and unbeknownst to any of these, Coal) during school hours, despite them being allies of the Decoranain.
Gratuitous English: Sometimes there's English phrases scribbled on the background as an expression of the characters' thoughts (example: Sapphie is musing on Ruby's oddities, which is expressed by a short sequence where Ruby is screwing around and Sapphie is sweatdropping with a "Why?" hovering near her).
Have You Seen My God?: The Jewelpets want to find the Deco Stones to restore their goddess after she abandoned the world and turned to stone from despair.
In Medias Res:
Episode 22 opens with the Kira Deco 5 already fighting Coal and co. for the Deco Stone of the episode.
Episode 30 opens with Pink, Blue Knight, Ruby and Garnet questing in the middle of the desert for the next Stone. There's a brief flashback to the night before when Decorisky informed them of its location.
Instant Awesome: Just Add Mecha!: In episode 27, the gigantic Jewelpets combine to form one.
Interspecies Romance: Garnet x Blue Knight, Charotte x Midori and later Retsu, Nephrite x Ruby.
And to a lesser extent, Ruby X Granite, the latter of whom only appears exclusively in 2 episodes.
Lighter and Softer: This season is very much sillier and lighter in tone and themes than the seasons preceding it.
Lotus-Eater Machine: Episode 16. Coal creates Pink's ideal world where she's back in the human world, is tall, and has reconciled with her ex. Coal takes on the role of her ex to trick her into giving him the Deco Stones.
Love Triangle: A bizarre and complicated case - Opal likes Coal, but also seems to have feelings for Io she doesn't want to admit; Io likes Opal but also likes Coal's crossdressed alter ego Coarumi.
Lucky Charms Title: The title is supposed to have a star between Kira and Deco. And there's the exclamation point.
Magical Incantation: Kira Deco! Jewel Flash! and Coal Darkness Cloud! Jewel Yamish!
Market-Based Title: Called Jewelpet Sparkling Deco in Portugal.
Meat-O-Vision: In episode 15, the starving main Jewelpets start hallucinating that each of them are meat.
Mineral MacGuffin: The Deco Stones.
Noodle People: Pink's ex-boyfriends are all intentionally designed with ridiculous proportions that make them more than double Pink's height, with far too long arms and legs whose knees noticeably jut out when they sit ("1-to-25 head-to-body ratio!"). This may be a parody of CLAMP's art style.
In episode 16, Coal creates an illusion of Pink's ideal world, influenced by her boyfriends, and she gets these proportions. Then the rest of the Kira Deco 5 and the pets go in and we get this rather terrifying example.
Old, Dark House: The gang visits one in episode 29 in order to find a Deco Stone. It turns out that it's Garnet's Summer villa she had forgotten about, and it has no electricity.
Orbital Bombardment: When Ruby decides to summon all the stone fists at once.
Pinky Swear: This features heavily in Pink and Ruby's friendship.
In the ED, Pink also does this with herself, whatever it's supposed to mean.
Police Are Useless: Angela and Labra's police force. They arrest people for the most innocuous things and keep getting in the way of the heroes. They are also incredibly slow and lazy. Sometimes, they get the odd case right, but it doesn't really compensate.
Potty Failure: Ruby in episode 21, which gets photographed and is one of the reasons she feuds with Pink.
Again in episode 37 with Yuku.
Priceless Paperweight: Ruby at first uses the Deco Stones as food condiments.
Public Domain Artifact: Sapphie wants to decorate her Jewel Pod with a Philosopher's Stone, and takes an interest in the legend of the Mirror Ball believing that one of the scattered pieces might be it.
Robinsonade: Episode 15 has the main Jewelpets falling off the town's bridge and being driven ashore of a Deserted Island.
RPG Episode: Episode 47 of Kira Deco.
Deep-Immersion Gaming: In the case of Coal and the Dark General, who are sitting at computers. The others get transported into the game flat-out.
Sentient Vehicle: The Deco Bus. It needs to lie down to sleep.
Ship Tease: Pink has moments with both Retsu and Blue Knight.
Take That, Audience!: The Dark General is an otaku and a NEET who has a huge sense of entitlement, essentially one big middle finger to the periphery audience that previous seasons amassed. Of course, such a move also guaranteed that Kira Deco would become the most hated season among that audience.
Temporary Bulk Change: There have been two separate incidents of Ruby and Coal getting ripped as hell and reverting to their normal body shapes in a matter of seconds.
Ten Little Murder Victims: Used in episode 29, but without actual death occurring.
Trapped in Another World: The Kira Deco 5 enter Jewel Land and stay there until the end of the season, not being free to travel between the worlds like in past seasons.
True Companions: The Kira Deco 5.
Two-Timer Date: Kaiser with Pink and Ruby in episode 33. All part of his plan to get them mad at each other.
Unrealistic Black Hole: Episode 51, where the Dark General uses his magic at the Saitama Ultra Arena to create a black hole to suck in all living beings, except for the internet geeks, so that the Earth can become a paradise for them and prosper under their rule.
Verbal Tic: All episode titles end with "~deco".
Wham Episode: Episode 51. Labra dies and turns back into her charm form. Coal dies trying to take down the Dark General. And lastly the Dark General goes berserk as he's going to destroy everyone on his path.
"Where Are They Now?" Epilogue: There are a few very short scenes interspersed with the Dance Party Ending detailing what happens to the Kira Deco 5, although they're kind of vague. The team has apparently split up. Retsu and Blue Knight are still heroing around, but went solo. Kiichi is seen lazing under a tree, still wearing his sentai costume. Midori is all grown up and attending middle school. And most importantly, there's a full and final scene of Pink fulfilling her dream of taking the Shonan-Shinjuku line to go to school.

YMMV / Jewelpet Kira Deco!
Author's Saving Throw: The Blu-ray box only has 16 episodes (they are: 1-3, 13, 16, 22-23, 29, 34, 44, 46-48, 50-52). This was apparently intended to cut out all the 'fluff' and only include the most vital (or just fan-preferred, in the case of 34) episodes. But since the set absurdly costs 21k yen (about 175 US dollars), this just angered potential buyers and it ended up bombing hard.
Contested Sequel: The Periphery Demographic is disappointed with how much more childish this season is compared to previous seasons, which have a wider demographic appeal. In contrast, kids seem to love this one, with its simple characters, bizarre world-building, and bigger focus on the pets.
Hilarious in Hindsight:
In episode 11, Ruby, who has white hair (fur) and red eyes, jumps up to Flora's giant cloud form to shear her. A year after this season's premiere, Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance came out, in which Raiden, who also has white hair and red eyes, throws the first boss high into the air and then also jumps up to said boss to carve it up. A fan even added Rules of Nature to Ruby doing this here.
She also collects magical stones and at one point throws a moon.
Memetic Mutation: Onegai My Jewelpet Kirara Deco due to its plot being highly similar to Onegai My Melody Kirara. And note that both of these series are considered the worst incarnations, and Onegai My Melody Kirara turned out to be a Franchise Killer for the My Melody anime.
Pretending to be Angela and Labra and arresting people for saying something which ticks them off (like Fandom Heresy).
Moe: Yamirin. Cute glasses-wearing girl with pigtails and a frilly dress. It helps that she was designed by an in-universe otaku.
Narm: Labra's death in episode 51 loses all its impact when they show Angela's shocked reaction, which is super-deformed.
Blue Knight's princely outfit is so over-the-top that it may come across as ridiculous instead of sexy as intended.
Nightmare Fuel: Episode 25, featuring a village of saury. Coal casts a spell to rot its inhabitants, and we get to see decaying zombie saury as a result. Then the unaffected saury decide to commit suicide by throwing themselves in a fire, to avoid becoming spoiled food. Yes, they do see themselves as food, and think it's a great honor to be killed and eaten by other beings. Even if the whole situation is treated as being absurd, it's pretty freaking horrible when you think about it.
Pandering to the Base: The series is the end result of what happens when something aimed at little girls excessively panders to the periphery demographic. The anime has done this since the beginning, but the first series had small doses of it and Twinkle had a reasonable balance. However, Sunshine truly spoilt the secondary audiences too much (18-year old characters worried about their future, taboo love and a myriad of obscure pop-culture references are a winning combination for otakus, but not for little kids) and shot their expectations for Kira Deco far too high. Hence, the outrage of the secondary audience when Kira Deco turned out to be Lighter and Softer so it'd be more appealing to kids (its main demographic) again. The Blu-Ray Selection box is just another example of surrendering to the periphery demographic.
Pink, the sole human girl for half of the show, gets to a wear a wide variety of outfits, which is regarded by some as fanservice for the otaku crowd.
So Bad, It's Good: What fans it has usually say that the show isn't really "good", but that its ridiculousness and stupidity make it very entertaining.
They Changed It, Now It Sucks!: Some people dislike this season for being Lighter and Softer and much sillier than the seasons that preceded it.
They Wasted a Perfectly Good Character:
Granite only appears in one or two episodes and leaves no impact, despite how in the first of those he's established as Ruby's boyfriend.
Topaz. She's given a very interesting and unique personality by Jewelpet standards. Unfortunately, she only has one major appearance (the rest is cameos) and the entire point of her character is to explain where Pink's wardrobe comes from.
This Is Your Premise on Drugs: Generically regarded as Jewelpet on drugs.
What Do You Mean, It Wasn't Made on Drugs?: Some episodes are so out there that it makes you think the writers were on crack. Exhibit A - the episode with a village of Death Seeker fishes.
Woolseyism: In episode 1, Opal calls Ruby 'Baka' and a discussion ensues about how Opal is more 'baka' because the word needs the kanji for 'horse' (which Opal is) and 'deer' to be formed. In the Portuguese dub, Opal calls Ruby 'burra', which means both 'stupid' and 'donkey', and Garnet retorts that she is more 'burra' because of the closeness in species between horses and donkeys.

Ho Yay / Jewelpet Kira Deco!
Coal's crossdressing makes this inevitable. It gets better with Io liking his crossdressed form until the upsetting reveal.
Episode 2. Ruby's expression when first meeting Pink is the same as Garnet meeting Blue Knight. When Angela tries to arrest the KiraDeco 5, Ruby jumps to tackle her out of the way and saves her, even though they've just met. Then the secondary effects of Angela's spell make Pink fall asleep, and Ruby is all like "YOU GONNA GET RAPED". The next morning, Pink is sleeping on Ruby's bed with Ruby on top of her. Then, Ruby packs up the decorative stones she loves so much and gives them to Labra as bail to get them off Pink's case.
In episode 3, there's a scene where Pink seems to try to tenderly touch Ruby's facenote , and then immediately backs away with a flustered look on her face.
In episode 20, Ruby and Pink are directly compared to Garnet and Blue Knight when Pink promises to protect Ruby from Garnet's assailant. One time, Pink performs a Diving Save, and is looking all heroic while Ruby looks at her with loving eyes saying "Oh, Pink...", with Love Bubbles in the background.
In episode 24, Pink gets upset at the fact that Ruby has a date to the ball, as she was hoping that Ruby would be her date. Her reaction at discovering Ruby's boyfriend can be read as jealousy.
In episode 34, Ruby looks distressed when Pink is about to ring the Amore Bell (if you ring the bell with someone you love, you'll stay with them forever) with Gray.
In episode 36, Ruby sees Blue carrying Garnet and asks Pink to do the same with her while blushing.
In episode 12, there's the scene of Ruby taking Topaz' hands and Topaz leaning in to look at her face more closely. It Makes Sense in Context since Ruby is actually begging for her to make clothes for Pink and Topaz is determining whether she is worthy.
At the start of episode 33, Pink distracts Ruby by telling her that Opal is flying around "butt-naked". Ruby turns to look with stars in her eyes.
In episode 38, Retsu receives "get hugged by Blue" coupons by mistake. "Now, Blue! Hug me as hard as you can!"
In episode 44, Kohaku pleads with Tour not to "partner" with Sapphie (whom Tour was trying to seduce), saying that Tour's real partner is him. Tour is moved, instantly drops his Latin Lover persona and holds hands with Kohaku while re-asserting their partnership.

Shout Out / Jewelpet Kira Deco!
In episode 19, there's a split-second shout out to Image Boards memes◊, of all things.
In episode 20, a parody of the Mission: Impossible theme plays when Blue Knight orders Garnet's guard force to attention.
Garnet reveals that she has a beauty mask similar to Jason Voorhees'.
A parody of "Gonna Fly Now" plays in episode 22, when Ruby and Retsu are running around being Hot-Blooded.
In episode 24, Coal goes by the alias Coalupin in order to perpetrate a robbery.
In episode 25, there is an homage to Michael Jackson's "Thriller" video, featuring Ruby and the zombified sardines copying the dance moves. A bit from the song plays in the broadcast version, but not in the home video one.
In episode 35, Dian takes out his cards and says "Let's jewel". Might be just a subs joke.
In episode 39, Btooom!-stones; the subs-exclusive name given to the explosive stone that Ruby unknowingly threw at King's house.

Tear Jerker / Jewelpet Kira Deco!
Ruby forgiving Pink at the end of episode 22 after all of the trouble she caused, all thanks to King. All she has to do is say sorry.
There's something incredibly sad about the scene where Kaiser mindrapes Retsu into the dark side by discussing his treatment of Midori. You can feel the moment when Retsu completely breaks.
Kaiser: So, whose fault was it?
Retsu: (plainly) Mine.
(the darkness consumes him)
The last episode, in which each of the Kira Deco 5 have their private goodbyes with their Jewelpet partners.

Web Video / The Suburban Prospector
Cameron "The Suburban Prospector" Cook is an internet movie and music reviewer. His videos are featured on Daily Motion and Audible Forte, formerly on The Rosen Hacker and Channel Zero.
This creator's videos provides examples of:
Adaptation Sequence: (In-Universe) Points out that Drake's "Take Care" is a cover (of sorts...) of Jamie XX's remix of Gil Scott-Heron's cover of a blues standard.
Arson, Murder, and Jaywalking: His content advisory for his review of Beneath the Darkness lists "Some disturbing content, language and an This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.overacting Dennis Quaid."
In the Style of...: His one-year anniversary episode is an homage to The Cinema Snob.
Name McAdjective: Refers to a one-dimensional drill sergeant as Generic McJarhead.
Noodle Implements: "... with a bloody machete, a propeller beanie, and a banana cream pie."
Running Gag: He plays a clip of "Another One Bites the Dust" when a useless character dies in a horror movie, then realizes he's already used the gag and worries if it will result in a lawsuit by Adam Lambert.
Sarcasm Mode: His first video, an apparently positive review of Lady Gaga's "Just Dance," was completely tongue-in-cheek.

Video Game / Railroad Tycoon
Railroad Tycoon is a series of games simulating the operation of railroads/railways. The original game was created by Sid Meier at MicroProse and released in 1990. Two sequels were created by other developers in 1998 and 2003 respectively, before Meier returned for a fourth installment, Sid Meier's Railroads, in 2006.
The original "Tycoon" game and the one that helped to popularize the Business Sim genre. The game was very well received when it first appeared in 1990 since it captured some of the real life challenge and competition of running a large rail company. It was also a classic example of being better than it sounded, drawing in players who weren't the slightest bit interested in trains, the stock market or 19th-century history.
Tropes present in this series:
Alliance Meter: In Tycoon 2, you can go into your company's information book and see just where you stand with various territories in terms of their goodwill. Every territory has a default value, but certain things can raise it (manager bonuses, reliable and frequent service) and other things can degrade it (untransported cargo loads, breakdowns, and so forth). The overall effect is that poor goodwill in a territory leads to higher costs to acquire the rights to lay track and to run trains.
Anachronism Stew: A minor but still noticeable case in Tycoon 2. While train cars will change appearance through different eras, the world map does not, and thus a meat packing plant or a steel mill will look the same in 1855 as in 2055. Additionally, managers are not confined to specific eras, so in the 1800s you could potentially hire a manager that gives discounts on diesel or electrical expenses, things that do not even exist yet. And of course, all these managers you're hiring variably haven't been born yet, or died years ago.
A.I. Breaker:
In the original installment of the game, railway tracks from one company could not cross other companies' tracks. Let's say some inconvenient AI player decided to start a company with its first city not far from the Player Character's growing network, threatening to go From Nobody to Nightmare in no time. The answer? Immediately (or at least very soon) build a spur line over to near the AI company's lone station and encircle it with track completely — then just leave it. The AI cannot get anywhere, and with no way to make any revenue, their company dies a swift death, with the added insult-to-injury being that the player's company is now easily positioned to take over the same now-vacated city with their own station.
Furthermore, AI players in the original game could not reconnect stations that had been severed by a rate war in an adjacent city. Try this: find a three-city-long AI-controlled railway line and defeat the AI in a rate war for the middle city of the aforementioned three. This leaves two isolated stations with no track at all, which subsequently leads to the collapse of the rival railway when Reality Ensues.
In Tycoon 2, an AI character like Jim Fisk or George Hudson will be stymied if the difficulty settings prevent them from their usual stock market manipulations, or J.P. Morgan is easier to face if he cannot invest in industries as he tends to do.
In Tycoon 3, some cheap station buildings maliciously placed in the right places can block the AI expansion forever, as they can't evict or bulldoze buildings of rival companies.
A.I.-Generated Economy: Railroad Tycoon 3 has an intricate and well developed economic system:
There are other rivals companies building their own transport networks like in the previous installments, but the game itself implements an alternative new method: Unpicked goods and materials are gradually moved from their production sites to the places where they are needed, following a supply and demand logic and price curves. This process is usually very inefficient, but depending on the relative locations it can actually feed industries on its own, as the cargo moves slowly inland (very slowly and possibly not at all in mountain terrain), but adequately faster via rivers and other bodies of water.
Processing industries tend to spawn in areas with a high concentration of raw resources, simulating private entrepreneurship. These local facilities can outcompete distant ones, as the newly generated demand will be on par with the remote one, making hauling commodities unprofitable, which is not allowed by the game mechanics. Production facilities can also disappear, but the process is very random.
An Entrepreneur Is You: Start with 1,000,000 units of your local money, an empty region of a country, and cities demanding goods. Goal: Provide the best service, make money, defeat rivals.
Apocalypse How:
Class 1 halfway to Class 2 in the expansions of Tycoon 2. No, really: 20 Minutes into the Future, the Strait of Gibraltar is dammed and a futuristic geothermal power plant is built in Spain while the drained Mediterranean Sea becomes free land for European development. However, protesters and activists bomb the plant, turning a third of Spain into a cratered wasteland, and the resulting eruption of volcanic greenhouse gases causes world sea levels to rise rapidly. In the chaos, North America descends into anarchy, Africa becomes an island and a haven for displaced civilians, the Mediterranean re-fills as Europe is flooded out, and Antarctica melts and is settled.
There is also the famous Cascadia map made by Nick Bennett, which can be best described as a Spiritual Successor of The Postman.
Artificial Stupidity:
The AI in Tycoon 2 and 3 is generally competent, but sometimes they start their company between two mediocre cities in mountainous terrain with track so convoluted or direct that their rolling stock can do no better than crawl, and they are unable to choose a suitable locomotive for pulling, going instead for the most modern one. When Reality Ensues, this leads to a stunted and minimally profitable railway that you can easily out-compete.
The AI is extremely good at finding routes with the most absolute profit at the moment and will constantly change routes accordingly, but if and when they connect to a rival's network, they will usually run routes where most of the profit goes to the owner of the tracks, while they still have to pay fuel and maintenance. They only build stations in named cities, never in rural production centers, and are incapable of any strategic thinking, choosing the route with the most immediate profit but one that might not create added value, like the ones that fuel industries with little short-term margin but end up introducing unrivalled new wealth into the economy. This is the reason it usually does poorly in maps with limited resources that require some puzzle-like connections to get ahead.
Awesome, but Impractical:
The MagLev in Tycoon 2 is rated as having a top speed of 280 miles per hour, but it costs a boatload of money to buy, fuel and maintain, and performs very badly on grades. It's pretty much only useful on high-value passenger runs between large cities on flat ground.
In the same game, any industry that requires steel. Steel is only produced from a steel mill, and needs coal and iron to do so, two resources you will likely never find close together near a major town, and thus the cost of the two or three trains needed to produce and move the steel around will likely outweigh the profits you make doing so. In later missions some industries switch to aluminum for their production, and the only industries that still accept steel are Tool and Die Factories and Automobile Factories, the latter of which needs another resource, tires, to produce cargo, and tires in turn need to be manufactured from rubbernote . Good luck finding any profitable and practical route with all these factories and resources in close proximity.
In Tycoon 2 and 3, you can build suspension bridges across really long distances such as the Great Lakes, or in the original game or 3, you can construct tunnels through the entire length of a mountain chain. Understandably, this is highly expensive, and your board of directors will scream bloody murder at the expense if you aren't already making a decent profit.
Beyond the Impossible: In Tycoon 2, pushing up the throttle on trains, especially if they're older engines and/or have poor reliability, can result in their annual breakdown probability going over 100%.note 
Bland-Name Product: A few trains in the third game appear with names changed from their real-life counterparts. The AMD 103 Genesis becomes "USA 103" and the SD90MAC becomes "NA-90D". The "unofficial" 1.06 patch includes the proper names for these 2 locomotives as part of its changes. And then some are entirely made up, like the MagLev in Railroad Tycoon 2.
Blessed with Suck: In Tycoon 2, the "Basic" industrial and financial difficulty levels are this, oversimplifying game mechanics to the point that they will hinder your attempts to play.
On the Basic financial model, AI opponents cannot buy stock in your company, but you cannot buy into theirs, putting mergers and takeovers off the table and forcing you to choke off their railroad instead. The Advanced financial model allows buying and selling competitors' stock, and the Expert level in turn allows margin buying and short-selling for further shenanigans.
On the Basic industrial model, every industry in range of a station generates its respective product regardless of whether it is supplied with any required resources, meaning that if you actually incorporate the mines, farms, etc. into your system you can easily end up with way more cargo than your railroad can handle (and having untransported carloads steadily tanks local goodwill towards your company). The Advanced model actually requires cargoes to be delivered before industries will convert them, and the Expert model does the same and allows you to buy industrial buildings to take a cut of their profits.
Bomb-Throwing Anarchists: Tycoon 2 introduces the People Against Humanity (P.A.H.) in the Second Century expansion, who are protesting against the development of the dammed and drained Mediterranean as well as the construction of the Geocore Plant. They eventually bomb the plant, with the resulting global warming causing a Class 1-2 Apocalypse How, depending on how the player handles the aftermath.
Boring, but Practical:
Want to climb that wall of mountains to get at the mines you see just out of your reach? The Shay ("Three-Truck" in Tycoon 2 and "Two-Truck" in 3) has a horrible top speed (about 25 mph) but is, as in real-life, one of the best steep-grade haulers in the game (definitely the best among steam engines) and is rather cheap to boot.
Industry investments. For a few thousand bucks, capping at a million for the really profitable industries, you get a cut of the profits if that industry supplies any trains. The more trains supplied, the more money made. Production facilities like mines and farms can earn you tens of thousands a year for an initial investment of only a few thousand to buy them, if you happen to be running trains to them over and over. If it's a production faciliy that needs to be supplied to produce something (and it therefore has no cap on how much it could produce every year, as long as you keep running supply shipments to it), you can make back your investment into it in just a few years.
Station enhancements. They're invisible and you'll probably not think about them much, but many of them reduce the penalty for goods sitting at the station not being moved yet, which will only save you a few pennies at a time but it will add up over many years. Much more practical are the Saloon, Restaurants, and Hotels, which boost the profit gained from passenger routes; the latter two have a hefty price tag, but will more than make back the money invested into building them. Also useful are Telegraph/Telephone Poles, which reduce station turnaround time, because every second a train spends unloading and loading cargo is time it isn't spending transporting that cargo to make you money.
Cap: 30,000,000 money units in the original game.
Canada Does Not Exist: Some North America scenarios designate Canada as part of the United States of America. On the upside, in Tycoon 2, this has the benefit of not requiring the hated customs wait-time mechanic, since the cargo does not have to cross any borders in-game.
Captain Ersatz: Second Century in Tycoon 2 includes a mission where you're contacted by a small Redmond software company called "Macrosquish" who want a connection for their workers. Depending on your success in the mission, the ending message of congratulations will comment that their CEO gives you a few thousand shares as thanks, but the narration snarks "Like those will be worth anything …"
Cattle Baron: The player can build (in the original game) or buy (in Tycoon 2) local industries to make two sets of money. In Tycoon 3, both are possible.
Competitive Balance:
In Tycoon 2, this is achieved for all trains via their speed versus the cars they're hauling and their grade performance. Trains get exponentially slower the more cars you attach and the steeper the grade they struggle with, but attaching fewer cars means less profit. Thus any train can be a Fragile Speedster that moves quickly between stations but makes little profit for having only a couple cars, or a Mighty Glacier with a full load and high profits but sluggish speed. Naturally if you plan your routes properly and choose trains suited to the route though, you can still make any train a Lightning Bruiser, moving between stations quickly and still being highly profitable.
The same game also gives this regarding the three train types — steam engines, diesel, and electric. In general, steam trains have higher fuel costs and need more station facilities to keep them running properly, diesel trains have a higher initial price tag and middling speeds, and electric trains are cheap and fast but need expensive electrified rails to run on.
The Computer Is a Cheating Bastard: Specifically My Rules Are Not Your Rules:
In the original game, the AI can build track in ways the player cannot, like several bridges along the length of a river, or up to eight tracks coming out of a station in all directions (rather than the usual two).
By the time it gets to Tycoon 2, things are much more even, though the computer players still seem to be able to afford things that the human player cannot (like stock in the human player's company). And if you buy out an opponent's company, you're going to find yourself wondering how their steam engines managed to run properly for years when none of their stations have roundhouses or water towers, which are vital for steam engines to run smoothly for more than a year. Additionally, the AI is able to go into debt to buy things it doesn't actually have the money for at the time, whereas you either have the money or you don't.
In 3, AI companies can do business in territories in which they don't have access rights, and will issue bonds despite having an appallingly low debt classification, postponing a liquidation for a long time.
The purchasing power of AI rivals is more sturdy than possible. Their debt is magically reduced when they are put in a margin call situation and they will conjure money out of thin air.
Cool Train: Take a wild guess. From Railroad Tycoon 2, for instance:
Many of the older classic steam engines, like the 4-4-0 American or the 2-8-0 Consolidation.
Several of the late-game electric "bullet train" models, culminating in the futuristic MagLev, rated as having "instant" acceleration and a top speed of 280 miles per hour.
Copy Protection: The first game requires identifying a train from the manual, and an incorrect entry restricts you to two trains.
Corrupt Corporate Executive: You! The player can engage in activities such as running trusts or insider trading, transport illegal goods to make some extra cash, and make shady deals with dubious figures to get a leg up on competitors.
Try this in Tycoon 2: use a majority share of a rival company to elect yourself chairman, sell off or destroy all their trains, railroad and industry investments, then re-elect yourself chairman of your original company and buy out the rival company for a bargain price (again using your majority share to ensure the buy-out goes through), since their stock price will have plummeted as a result of losing all their assets. You'll not only get your rival out of the way, but the profit other players would have made off a "normal" merger is reduced to pennies since at the time of the merger the stock price was so low.
Alternatively, after selling all their assets, start selling your participation in the company while using the cash and bonds they might have to buy back stock and keep the price of the shares high. Resign, short-sell their stock and wait a month to "buy" it back when it hits the minimum. You can now merge with the hollow company left or wait until it dies.
Here is a route if you're trying to improve your personal net worth. Acquire a 50+1% share of your main company, which gives you full ownership and neutralizes the company board of directors. Resign your chairmanship and found a new company which you also control the majority of shares (which doesn't need to have any tangible assets). Re-take the chairmanship of your original company, and then buy out the new company for maximum share price (if you want you can take out bonds to increase your first company's cash on hand to afford an even higher price per share). The result is all of your company's money that goes into the buyout slides into your own pocket. Your board of directors will be furious with you for treating the company like an ATM, but there is nothing they can do about it since you hold majority ownership. In real life, this would result in lawsuits and possibly jail time.
A few maps have the objective of being the only railroad in operation, encouraging this sort of play to drive the competition into the ground as ruthlessly as possible.
The last few missions of the Second Century campaign in Tycoon 2 have you as this trope in the storyline. Sure, the world is flooding, anarchy is rampant, and food is in short supply. That just means a cunning railroad baron can make a killing supplying the people in their time of greatest need! The narrator even says on one such mission, "In chaos lies profit".
A pesky rival is buying too much into your company and is eating away your dividends? Wait until boom times, then issue stock several times to lower the price of the share. He'll find it a bargain below market price and will go into debt to seize the chance. Cancel the dividend and wait him out, as the economy can only go down. When the downward cycle hits, issue stock, sell some of your own and short-sell any other he may have to invoke a margin call. You can now buy back those shares in your company, but cheaper.
Crutch Character:
In Tycoon 2, the Iron Duke far and away has better stats than any other train to be available before it, and a few after it too. It'll be your go-to engine for several decades, but eventually its high purchase price, fuel costs, and terrible grade performance gradually make it outclassed by more modern engines.
Also in Tycoon 2, Thomas Crampton gives hefty bonuses to speed and acceleration for all steam engines, and despite this, he can be hired and employed for a virtual pittance, and he tends to show up a lot earlier than top-tier managers like George Pullman. In fact, if you really luck out in the steam era, you can start a scenario with Crampton assigned to your new company right off the bat.
Determinator:
Isolated industries and producers of undemanded raw materials can and will endure years and years operating at a loss, hoping someday transportation will come to their door and save them from being in the red.
Some AI rivals keep founding new companies after you buy them out. This subsequent firms should be easy to encroach, as they don't start on even terms like in the beginning of the game and have to compete against a monopolistic adversary already dominating the market.
Disc-One Nuke:
Several maps include deals to get you early access to higher-tier engines than what would otherwise be available by default.
In 3, buying a new and well placed industry or agricultural building will bring solid, constant profits in the struggling early years when setting up rail infrastructure is expensive, the haulage limited and the regional demand quickly met. In some scenarios, focusing on industries and not running trains at all brings much better returns than transporting stuff. This is a huge change from 2, where industrial incomes are marginal at best.
Divided States of America:
The flooded United States scenario in the Second Century campaign in Tycoon 2 is somewhere between this and Fallen States of America. Flooding is bad enough that the entire Mississippi valley is gone, along with most of the major cities. The government has collapsed into several successor states, while everything west of Omaha is an anarchic wasteland.
Tycoon 3's "Alternate USA" scenario exists in a timeline wherein a single Revolutionary War never occurred and instead a number of independent nations emerged over time.
One fan-made map allows the player to pick sides in the American Civil War, with the success of the chosen side being dependent on the player's performance in special shipping missions.
Do Well, but Not Perfect: In 3, if you oversupply an industry, chances are a new one will appear in the zone, which will act as unwanted competition if you owned the established facility.
Eagleland:
Probably the only reason why the campaign in Tycoon 2 starts off with the Baltimore & Ohio Railway (B&O) on the USA's eastern seaboard, instead of starting in the actual birthplace of the steam locomotive (i.e. Great Britain).
Also, there is the omnipresent bluegrass background music causing Soundtrack Dissonance, depending on the geographical setting of the scenario.
Early Game Hell: Generally, Tycoon 2 and 3 are hardest in the first 10 years or so of play: you have few stock holdings, your company probably only has enough money to lay down track for one route and run one or two trains on it, the starting managers (Tycoon 2 only) to help you out suck, and you'll probably have to take out bonds to help finance it all. As the game continues and you begin to rack up profits, however, you can expand your network, pay off your debts, buy up more stock, and so forth. The AIs usually go bankrupt if their first connection between two cities is not an optimal chain, but will usually do fine if they are able to connect a third.
Expansion Pack:
The Gold and Platinum editions of Railroad Tycoon 2 add the even harder "Second Century" campaign along with a whole bunch of new stand-alone scenario maps.
Railroad Tycoon 3: Coast to Coast adds maps such as Ireland, Spain, Western Russia, Eastern China, and the whole continental USA.
Explosive Overclocking: In Tycoon 2, pushing a train's throttle setting above 85% (represented by a red zone on the throttle gauge) drastically increases the risk of a breakdown. At 100%, that risk is quadrupled. New trains can handle 100% fine, but don't try to push it with any trains that are over a year or two old. Averted in the original Railroad Tycoon and in Tycoon 3, where no throttles are present.
Exponential Potential: You need money (and/or a good credit rating) to make money. By midgame, growth typically snowballs, as profit begets even more profit.
Fake Difficulty: Some missions in Tycoon 2's "Second Century" expansion have the objective for the company to have an average lifetime speed of all trains of a particular speed. This is actually a massive restriction, forcing you to be more careful with which types of engine you buy, how many cars they haul at a time, and the layout of your train routes, to ensure your network meets the demand. This also means any particularly twisting routes or track over mountains is probably out of the question because they slow trains down too much, and you'll want to take it easy when running multiple trains on the same track so they don't get in each other's way. And all of this is done to achieve a very pointless and insignificant statistic you would never care about if the scenario didn't make you care.
Fan Sequel: What Railroad Tycoon 2 technically is. Phil Steinmeyer, the founder of PopTop Software, was a huge fan of the first game. Upon realising that it was the only huge success of MicroProse that wasn't going to get any sequelnote , Steinmeyer arranged to buy the copyrights for Railroad Tycoon and started working on the game with his own tiny company. The rest is the legend.
Fragile Speedster: Some of the fastest steam engines, such as the No. 999, cannot climb very well. In addition, some similarly fast engines have alarmingly low reliability ratings.
Gameplay and Story Integration: While its adherence to historical fact is laughable, occasionally the story rears its head to shake things up, such as wars affecting train route access or cargo available at the time they would be expected to start.
Getting Crap Past the Radar: Guess what the cheat code to increase city growth is? "Viagra".
Glass Cannon:
In many early missions in Tycoon 2, the Iron Duke has speed a good ten miles or more faster than other trains of the time, making it your go-to engine for those missions ... unless you're facing a route with steep grade, because the Duke moves like a snail over anything steeper than a gentle incline.
Passenger-oriented locomotives tend to fall into this in general, with high top speeds and acceleration, but drastic fall-offs in speed with heavy loads or when travelling on anything above a moderate grade. Plus, that high top speed tends to come with a hefty fuel bill.
Gotta Kill Them All: In a non-lethal sense, a lot of scenarios in Tycoon 2 and beyond have eliminating all other companies on the map as a victory condition. Depending on the quantity and quality of the AI opponent(s) as well as the starting geography, this can be anywhere from trivially easy to virtually impossible.
Guide Dang It!: The concept of delay pick-ups isn't explained anywhere in the game and barely hinted in the manual, while having massive impact on the game. Cargo remains in the station for specific amount of time, then it "decays", while station owner is penalised for poor shipping. Doesn't sound like much? Certain maps can end up unwinnable because of it, as the public goodwill tanks so hard, you will be unable to buy access rights - after all, your railroad service is terrible. If that wasn't enough, town growth is affected not only by how much you feed into it, but also how much of local goods was shipped away. Thus delivering as much cargo as feasible will have a positive net effect, since it means more and bigger towns, opening new markets and providing more passengers.
Heartwarming Orphan: The kid from the intro of Railroad Tycoon 3.
Historical In-Joke/Alternate History:
Several historical scenarios have the player as a major driving force behind the events, for instance in the third game the German Second Reich can be based on Prussia, Bavaria or Hannover as the core power, depending on the business choices. A Divided States of America scenario also exits. Or how about the victory screen of the "Cape to Cairo" scenario which says "Have you considered colonizing Europe?" In a very literal sense, here, you can take history itself Off the Rails.
The Loads and Loads of Characters in Tycoon 2 can result in some amusing corporate showdowns, including people who were on the same side historically (like the Central Pacific Railway's "Big Four") ending up at each other's throats by necessity.
I Want My Jetpack: The MagLev was said to come out in 2008. Well in 2008, the only such train in commercial service was the arguable white elephant known as the Shanghai Maglev Train. Even more unfortunately, Germany's equivalent of this train was dismantled in 2012. And the closest we will have to a proper commercial long-distance high-speed Maglev is the Chuo Shinkansen, which is planned to open for revenue service between Tokyo and Nagoya by 2027.
Idiosyncratic Difficulty Levels: Investor, Financier, Mogul and Tycoon in the original. Changed to a more flexible system for Railroad Tycoon 2 and beyond.
In Case You Forgot Who Wrote It: Sid Meier's Railroad Tycoon, and Sid Meier's Railroads.
Infinity -1 Sword:
That MagLev mentioned above under Awesome, but Impractical? Enter the Brenner — half as much to purchase, less to maintain, lower fuel cost, top speed with a full load of six cars just 20 MPH slower, significantly higher grade performance and better reliability. The drawback compared to the MagLev is slower acceleration. Okay, so your trains take a bit longer to get there and thus you make a bit less money off them, but you'll end up saving a lot more money than you lose since the Brenner's fuel cost is $70,000 a year compared to the MagLev's $305,000.
Tycoon 2's GG1. Highest reliability in the game, great acceleration and speed, does well on slopes, and isn't too far out of line for cost compared to other trains of its time. However, up until you get this train, the other electric trains have not been anything special and so you'll probably have to spend a fair amount of money electrifying any track you'll want to run this train on.
Just Train Wrong: Railroads is full of locomotives missing their tenders.
Level Editor: They are both available in Tycoon 3 and Tycoon 2.
Lighter and Softer: The apparent fourth installment, Sid Meier's Railroads departs from the serious business, hard-simulation approach and has a more toyish and simplified design. Appropriately, it lacks the Tycoon surname and breaks the Numbered Sequels custom.
Lightning Bruiser: The Big Boy. Also, the less iconic GG1, GP18, E111 and Dash-9 also count.
Loads and Loads of Characters: Tycoon 2 has no less than forty playable railroad magnates from throughout history, along with just as many managers to be hired to help run their companies.
Loophole Abuse:
Two railroads crossing each other will obviously create a crossing... but only if they cross each other at 90 degrees. The map is grid-based. If you lay down your rails in what the game considers to be "diagonal" direction, and then cross it diagonally, too◊, the game won't recognise the connection as a crossing, thus eliminating the standard problem of who goes first and which train has to stop.
Unless it's a mission where taking over other companies is not allowed at all, there is no rule that states you have to stick with your starting company to win a scenario. In fact, in a lot of missions it's easier to take control of a rival's company to run it as your own, since AI companies tend to start with open access to foreign territories while you typically need to buy the access rights. Start a company and purposefully run it just to pump up your share porfolio enough to buy a majority sharehold in another company, then elect yourself chairman and play normally with your new company while your original one falls into decline.note 
Scenarios that want to force the player to start from a certain location do so by having a station already built there and disabling the capacity to build unconnected track. This can be circumvented by bulldozing the station and any existing track and then start wherever you want, trading just a few dollars for a new, premium place.
Scenarios that put a limit of how much rail cells you can lay down carefully take into account existing stock of rails, how many new are used and how many are gained down the line. What it doesn't take into account is the fact each station build by default provides you with a cell of laid-down tracks. Sure, it costs 50 thousands to build the smallest station and then another 10 to bulldoze it, but when you are few cells short from making some super-important connection, this is better than waiting for next shipment of "real" rails.
Luck-Based Mission:
Most maps have randomly generated buildings, so it's in your interest to restart missions over and over to see what you could get. One such map, if you're lucky, might give you two populous cities, one with Coal and Iron Mines and the other with a Steel Mill, creating a very lucrative route for you. Or you might end up with a Bakery at one and a Produce Farm at the other. This is very pronunciated in 3 in scenarios designed with scarce resources. If the randomly generated industries are of the type that have to share their inputs with stuff demanded by houses, nothing new will be produced in the critical early game because the towns will have a greater pull until the zone is saturated.
The same goes in Tycoon 2 for the manager assigned to your company when you first form your railroad corporation. It could be someone like Thomas Crampton, who is cheap to employ and gives sizable bonuses to steam engines' speed and all engines' acceleration. Or it could be somebody who gives your railroad a +10% bonus to territorial goodwill.
Mighty Glacier:
The Three-Truck Shay in 2, as well as 3's two-truck variant. It has awful top speed, likely being even slower alone than other trains with full cargo, but its grade performance and speed loss with cars is amazing, so while it is very slow it can easily power over hills and mountains while towing six cars of bauxite ore or gravel (heaviest cargo), when most other trains would slow to an absolute crawl.
Freight-oriented locomotives tend to fall into this in general. They don't have the high top speeds that are crucial to success on passenger and mail routes, but they hold up better when hauling heavier loads, moving over higher grades, and remaining generally more reliable.
Nintendo Hard: The "Second Century" campaign in Tycoon 2 presumes you've finished the original campaign and thus is appropriately a few steps up in difficulty — many missions have multiple different objectives to achieve, you tend to work in geographically and politically unfriendly territory, often have to play the stock market, and need an awareness of how industry supply lines work. You want that Gold objective? You are earning it.
No Fair Cheating: When using a cheat code to win a scenario in 3, the dialog box that normally shows a cutscene and a scenario-specific congratulatory message will instead read "You win, cheater …"
Number Two: The managers introduced in Tycoon 2, who act as subordinates to the Player Character and their AI opponents in running the day-to-day operations of their railroad companies. For varying signing bonuses and annual salaries, they impart a range of possible bonuses to train speed, acceleration, safety, security, revenue, track and station building costs, while occasionally incurring minor penalties (e.g. maintenance costs, overhead costs, lowered stock price, etc.) for balance.
Obvious Rule Patch: A mission in Tycoon 2 has you develop a downtown rail system for Seattle, transporting only passengers of four classifications (depending on their destination). The rule patch is that the game treats these special cars as freight instead of passengersnote  for tracking profit, resulting in the managers that give massive profit boosts to passenger travel being useless, when otherwise they would make the mission This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.much easier.
Quest to the West:
The campaign mode of the third game is called "Go West", and requires the player to connect Boston and Buffalo. The next mission connects Cleveland and St. Louis, and the third one finally connects Salt Lake City with Sacramento and San Francisco before 1875.
The Western USA scenario of the original Railroad Tycoon grants a $1,000,000 bonus to the first company that completes a transcontinental railroad. Where this occurs within the map, or if it does at all, depends on the player.
Several of the early campaign scenarios in Tycoon 2 deal with this.
First, the player has to lead the New York Central in connecting New York City with Chicago.
Next, the player has to pick between connecting New Orleans and Los Angelesnote , St. Louis and Sacramentonote , or St. Paul and Seattlenote .
And after that, the player takes control of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) as they connect Halifax, Nova Scotia to Vancouver, British Columbia.
Railroad Baron: The player, of course, and some real life examples from history such as This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jay Gould, Jim Fisk, as well as engineers like Isambard Kingdom Brunel and megalomaniac rail-building world leaders such as Benito Mussolini.
Real-Time with Pause: You can pause in single-player but not in multiplayer.
Refining Resources: The purpose of the industries served by the railroads; converting raw materials into elaborated and more expensive goods, usually with an added value.
Riches to Rags: Be overleveraged, get caught with a margin call and say your net worth goodbye, and possibly several figures in the red for your troubles with no way to bounce back in a lifetime. You can stay chairman, but you have to pay debt interests that will put you further down in the hole.
Ridiculously Fast Construction: Assuming one's company has the funds on hand, continent-spanning rail lines complete with stations and trains can be built virtually overnight, especially if the game is paused while doing so. Then again, in-game time does run in months, so it's partially justified, and the game mechanics generally lead to expanding one's rail network in a gradual fashion, rather than building it all at once.
Shout-Out: In the third game, the newspaper includes occasional references to the island of Tropico. Both games were created by PopTop.
Shown Their Work:
The locomotives in the game tend to be recognizable as real-life engines with performance ratings similar to the real things, and historical scenarios tend to be at least somewhat grounded in reality.
The benefits offered by managers line up pretty well with their real-world careers. For instance, George Pullman gives +25% passenger revenue and +20% car maintenance costs. Pullman is credited with the invention and widespread adoption of Pullman sleeper cars, passenger cars with fold-out beds so customers could sleep on overnight rides, and his "Pullman Porter" workers provided top quality service on trains. Presumably the addition of such luxury elements means your passenger fees are higher, and the sleeper cars are more expensive to maintain than normal passenger cars.
Also, the tycoon characters, at least when under the control of the AI, are programmed to act somewhat like their real-life counterparts, focusing to different degrees on railway expansion, stock market manipulation and/or industry investments.
Snowclone Title/This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Follow the Leader: Oh, Lord, yes. Every single game ending with "Tycoon" can be traced back to this game.
Soundtrack Dissonance: Soft bluegrass pervades the game in all maps in Tycoon 2, which is weird when you are not in the USA, or when it's After the End.
Theseus' Ship Paradox: A train setting a speed record will become famous, get premium passenger revenues, a customizable name (Town name rocket/cannonbal/meteor) if it hasn't one already and a star to single it out. This status remains even if you change the line, change or upgrade the locomotive, or replace it in time in the event of a crash.
Timed Mission: Scenarios usually span two or three decades. A sense of urgency is often kept until late in the game because it takes a lot of time to achieve the exponential growth that guarantees a Gold victory.
Trope Codifier: For the private business sub-genre of the Construction and Management Games, compared to SimCity for the local-government sub-genre.
Unexpected Gameplay Change: The "Second Century" campaign in Tycoon 2 really changes things up. The first segment takes place during World War II, with you running military supplies in Britain during the Blitz (so you have limited supplies to build new track and have to deal with bombing runs destroying track and trains) and run supplies to Russian states during Operation Barbarossa to prevent the Germans from advancing too far. In the second segment, you have to build what's basically a light rail transit system in major cities. The third segment then takes place 20 Minutes into the Future with an actual storyline that unfolds concerning The End of the World as We Know It.
Units Not to Scale: The trains seem to be a mile tall when compared to the size of the map, and their travel time spans in-game months or even years.
Updated Re-release: Railroad Tycoon Deluxe, released in 1993 with improved graphics, new sound effects, maps and several additions.
Video Game 3D Leap: Railroad Tycoon 3 features a new three-dimensional presentation. Tycoon 2 does a good job (for its day) of faking it, though; see the page image above. Released in between, the Dreamcast version of II is fully 3D, and visually feels like Tycoon 2.5.
Video Game Time: Naturally; it's highly unlikely real life train rides take months or years, even when cross-continental. Aversions exist in 3, which has an option in map design to reduce the timescale down to fractions of an hour instead, and several scenarios make use of it.
Villain Protagonist: A number of the railroad chairpersons and managers in-game were either highly imperialist, deeply corrupt, or occasionally outright dictators in real life; of course, you can play as them however you choose.
We Buy Anything:
On easier difficulty levels cities and towns will buy any goods. At higher levels commodities are only demanded if a local industry needs them, and small towns must expand into cities before they will buy passengers, mail, and other goods.
You can no longer haul passengers and mail anywhere in 3, since they have specific destinations. However they will be accepted in intermediate stations, provided they can work as hubs in the system.
Market saturation happens in 3, but only for processed goods. Commodities and intermediate resources will happily pile taller than a mountain as inputs for industries, which have infinite demand.
White Man's Burden: The "Cape To Cairo" scenario (and its smaller-scale 3 counterpart "Rhodes Unfinished") invokes this by tasking the player to aid in the Colonization of Africa by building rails and running trains between Cape Town and Cairo within 40 years of the start date (1890).
Wide Open Sandbox: Most scenarios to a somewhat limited extent, but taken literally in the Sandbox Modes of 2 and 3. Even by default, the North America scenario sets you down in the continent and gives you free reign to build the ultimate rail empire however you choose and however long it takes.

YMMV / Railroad Tycoon
Accidental Aesop: Electric trains can be a huge risk to invest in, because electrified rail adds a lot of extra cost to laying track, and thus expanding your rail network is going to be a costly endeavor; compare to diesel trains which can run on normal track, making them seem more appealing. However, over time those diesel trains will cost you a fortune in maintenance (they almost universally cost a lot more in maintenance a year than electric trains), and in later years in-game electric trains will typically have better acceleration, reliability, and top speeds. The result is a Green Aesop with diesel trains seeming a preferable investment to electric but being more costly and inefficient in the long run, while electric trains will ultimately save you money despite the cost to implement them.
Awesome Music:
"Shuffle Train Blues"
"Production"
Breather Level:
Mission 15 (of 18) in Tycoon 2, "Which Way To The Coast?", you're given 40 years to complete your objective, and for a silver or gold victory have to do it in 30 and 20 years, respectively. What is that objective? Personal net worth of $10 million. And the map just happens to be wide-open and flat with plenty of industry and long-distance passenger routes waiting to be exploited. With any level of competency, which you surely have to get to this point in the campaign, you can get that net worth value in ten years.
Mission 17 (of 18) in Tycoon 2, "Dilemma Down Under", is similarly simple. For a gold, you need to have three consecutive years with excess of 1 million in profits. While the lack of passengers, your main income in most maps, is intimidating, the map is chock full of industries near your starting cities. With a bit of luck in the placements of those industries, you can reach the objective quite easily, as long as you're keen to squeeze every penny out of your trains.
Mission 6 of Tycoon 2's Second Century campaign, "The Super Trains", seems daunting at first because there's a lot of requirements you need to meet to get the gold. However, the mission is very simplified with no competitors to worry about and you only get to manage passenger and mail lines, so you don't need to think very hard about how to play, just start connecting cities and running trains of passengers. As for the gold requirements, it's quantity over quality — most of the individual objectives are pretty low and they all abstract down to you and your railroad being highly profitable, so the objective to connect four specific cities to Paris will result in a vast rail network that easily meets the mark.
Mission 12 of the Second Century campaign, "The Chunnel". It focuses on exactly what it says, with your objectives being to link the United Kingdom to various European countries and haul so many loads between them, and for the gold you also have to pay off several bonds you start with, and have to do it all within 20 years. Most of Europe is wide open and flat with lots of large cities to connect to London, Europe also tends to have lots of industrial plots that can supply London, you have a very large bankroll to lay track when you begin, and the mission lets you picks three good managers to start with. With a little luck in the placement of industries, you can run trains of both passengers and cargo between the UK and Europe and rake in tons of cash, allowing you to quickly pay off your debt and start expanding your network.
Mission 11 (of 16) in Tycoon 3, "Argentina", consists of a flat, vast country with plenty of resources around and no competition, making for a refreshingly simple challenge after the devious "Orient Express" scenario. You can even get the average speed required in the previous chapter with a relative minimum of effort.
Character Tiers: The managers of Tycoon 2, though their groupings are not clear-cut; some are clearly useless and others will be employed for life once they apply. The former: any manager with only one effect, since inevitably another manager will offer that effect alongside others. The latter:
For construction discounts, John Work Garrett (-40% electric track building, -20% mountainous track building), Charles F. Mayer (-40% track building, -20% bridge building) and Robert Gerwig (-50% mountainous track building, -40% bridge building).
For profits, Bat Masterson (-50% chance of robberies, +5% passenger and station revenue), Oscar C. Murray (+5% all passenger and cargo revenue, +20% station turnaround), and George Nagelmachers (+15% passenger revenue).
However, there is also George Pullman, who is near-unanimously agreed to be the best manager in the game. Pullman gives a massive 25% boost to passenger revenue, with an extra 5% bonus to station revenue in general. Being that passengers are your main source of income in most maps, he's a Game-Breaker among the managers. The only real reason not to hire him is if your scenario doesn't allow for you to make proper use of his benefits — for example, if you're not hauling many passengers, or if you need a construction discount for rapid expansion.
Disappointing Last Level:
The last mission of Tycoon 2's standard campaign, for a gold medal, gives you twelve years to build a railroad crossing Africa north-south from Cairo to Cape Town, and to carry eight loads of cargo between them. And it is quite difficult ... if you start where the map spawns you, at Cape Town, at the foot of a mountain range with scarce resources nearby. However, you also begin with access to Cairo, which has enough population to supply three trains running passengers to the southern cities, and can begin raking in large amounts of cash easily by connecting it to other large cities in and around Egypt. And while the map is divided among territories to which you need to buy access, you only need to access one of two empires to connect to Cape Town, and the access rights to the German territory (i.e. Tanzania) are dirt cheap. Coupled with a manager to reduce track-laying costs and/or increase passenger profits, you can connect the two cities within just a couple of years and send your trains down to Cape Town — it's a long trip, but it won't take them until the time limit is up.
The last mission in Tycoon 2's Second Century campaign is amazingly easy, particularly against the rest of the expansion which can be quite Nintendo Hard when it wants to be. The objectives are to get $15 million in book value, have the highest net worth of all four players (actual worth doesn't matter, just outrank them), and be the only railroad in operation. What makes it so simple is that you're given thirty years and some fairly flat terrain to work on, so making a profitable company is easy. With a bit of luck in the layout of resources you can easily buy out your competitors, the stock holdings needed to buy them out very likely giving you that superior net worth. With all three rival companies out of business, you have the rest of the time limit to get your company to $15 million book value, and if you're profitable enough to buy out three rivals and add their track systems to your own, you're liable to have that by the time you're alone anyway, and if not will be able to get it easily.
Goddamned Boss:
The AI opponents that focus on dominating you via the stock market. They can be nigh impossible to dislodge in Tycoon 2, to the point that if you see somebody like George Hudson or Jim Fisk in the game, it is usually a good idea to make use of your railway's early income (or even take on debt) just to buy back public stock until you control a bare majority stake in your own company — or even better, go for 100% ownership. This then leaves you free to push up your company's dividends to enrich yourself, buy up stock in their company, and hopefully put them out of commission. It's still hard to actually eliminate an AI opponent; even if you successfully pull off a hostile takeover of their company, the payout they receive from the sale of their stock can leave them with plenty of resources to buy into your company or start a whole new one.
More track-system-focused AI players can also turn out to be this, if their rail empire grows to block your access to cities and resources in a significant way. This is, however, much less of a problem when the map or scenario in question allows building track that is unconnected to your existing network, allowing you to open up a new market further away from active competition.
Good Bad Bugs: In Tycoon 2, building track one tile at a time is cheaper than to lay out one continuous track. Sometimes this is because when building a continuous stretch of track, the terrain will be adjusted to make the track grade less steep, which doesn't happen when building one tile at a time; other times, however, there seems to be no reason for it. Whatever the reason it happens, it can save a lot of money if you've got the patience to do it.
In Name Only: The Poptop sequels and Railroads didn't have much of the freedom, scope or open-endedness of the original game (and Deluxe). At least in Tycoon 2, however, a user can go into the single-player maps using the editor and remove the objectives and triggers that force victory conditions and a time limit on scenarios.
Most Wonderful Sound: The prolonged "clink-clink-clink-clink-clink" associated with a rare or very huge delivery and payload that makes everyone in your company happy, at least for the fiscal year.
Scrappy Mechanic:
In the original game, bridge washouts, which disallowed outright replacement and continued for a random length of time until the bridge would be spontaneously repaired. In the meantime, any train that accidentally proceeded into a washout would immediately be destroyed — not only with the loss of that train, but a drop in stock price and the removal of similar cargoes from the rest of the railroad (to represent the public's loss of confidence in the railway).
Dispatcher operation in the original game required pinpoint manual multitasking throughout the rail network to ensure that two trains wouldn't collide and demolish each other. Double track helped prevent this, but not entirely, and signal towers were necessary throughout the railroad to break track down into segments over which trains could enter and exit.
In Tycoon 2, when a train travels between two different territories, it has to go through customs. What this means in terms of gameplay is that the train gets to the station and sits there for an additional month or so, the value of its cargo continuing to degrade until it can formally arrive and your company cashes in. On the upside, you can speed up the process by adding a Customs House at the station, but you still can't eliminate the wait entirely.
The dynamic supply and demand system of 3 works very well in general, but the generation of price islands on the station squares makes missions where you have to haul stuff to an specific place a pain, because the prices will tank often and the station won't accept more cargo for a sweet time, even when the local demand around the place hasn't been met and is still higher than in the point of origin. This is mitigated in the 1.06 fanpatch by allowing to haul at a loss, and a second, non-adjacent station can be used to work around the problem in any case.
Surprisingly Improved Sequel: The original Railroad Tycoon was the groundbreaking Trope Maker for the entire "Tycoon" genre. Along came Tycoon 2, which mostly retained the Wide Open Sandbox gameplay of the original but added a campaign mode and was light-years better in terms of graphics and user-friendliness. Tycoon 3 and Railroads are both newer and more advanced, but neither one comes close to the giant step forward from the original game to Tycoon 2.
That One Level:
Any level that involves personal wealth. The only reliable way to make money for yourself is to run a successful company and get paid through dividends, buying back public stock when you can to increase your stock price. Unfortunately otherwise, the stock market of the games is very much like the real-life stock market, in that it can crash at any time. The more stock you buy on margin, the more reliant you become on its price staying high so your purchasing power doesn't go down below zero and you're not forced to sell back the stock to get your purchasing power back in the positive. The problem that comes up is that selling stock lowers the market price, in turn lowering your purchasing power again so you have to sell more stock. Repeat until you own no stock and are several million in debt. Oh yes, and rival owners can short sell stock, lowering its price to start this descent into bankruptcy, and you can't stop them. This will happen. The only escape from the loop is to buy out other companies so your stock with them is liquidated into cash that won't fluctuate with the market, but that's only for other companies, takes a lot of money to do, and isn't so much an escape as a safety net that ensures you have at least some money when the market collapses and you lose your stock.
"Next Stop The 20th Century" in Tycoon 2. Bronze objective: have $10 million in industry investments — easy, just buy lots of industry. Silver objective: also have an annual profit from industry of at least a million, and for a Gold, do both ten years ahead of time. The thing about industry profits is that they are ridiculously low; even if you have a dozen trains running industry cargo around supplying factories and such with what they need, you'll only be making a few hundred thousand a year off of them. This mission rounds it off by making you buy access rights to neighboring countries and giving you three AI companies to compete with. And, each time you start the mission, the industries are randomly placed, so have fun restarting the mission over and over waiting for a winning map to appear.
The same mission has a deliberately placed sharp turn on pre-existing rail right in front of Paris. And you can't do anything about it. Enjoy all those trains dropping all their speed right before the station and crawling over the turn!
"Croissants or Crumpets" in Tycoon 2 throws basically every handicap that it can at you. You start in politically and geographically unfriendly territory, with mountains and countries that you need to buy access rights to. You have to build all of your track connecting to existing track, and you only start with $800,000 to spend on laying track to a second city, building a station there, and actually buying a train to start making money. If you run out of money, you can't take out bonds in this mission. Finally, for the gold objective, you need to be the only surviving railroad. The major problem here is that your two competitors start in the northern part of the map, where terrain is flat and cities are large, so they'll be able to quickly build up powerful, profitable companies, and will funnel those proceeds into buying up majority shareholds of the company; as early as the start of the second year it's possible for one of them to have achieved 50%+1 stock ownership, which makes buyouts impossible and the gold unobtainable.
"Edelweiss Express" in the Second Century campaign is brutal. The gold objectives are a total of 2000 cargo loads hauled, $30 million in personal net worth, and $10 million in lifetime industry profits. You're set down in a small starting country with high fees to buy access rights to neighboring countries, the load objective means you need to constantly be expanding your network and adding more trains, the net worth objective means playing the stock market, and the industry profits means you need a lot of industry routes and to keep investing money in buying up industries. And the time limit for all this chaos is a scant 19 years.
"The Orient Express" in Tycoon 3: Connect Vienna to Istanbul, maintain an average express speed of 30 MPH, and build a personal net worth of $15M in 35 years. The amount of freight cargo generated by the map is not quite enough to fuel your growth, and express cargo has to be treated so carefully that it's a good option to skip it altogether, since maintenance stops (which occur automatically if a facility is in the train's path) should be scheduled in a way that they only happen with an empty train, and still a breakdown down in the line — let alone a express train suffering one — can tank your average speed beyond recovery. That leaves the industry game as the less hazardous way, and not building railroads at all until the last years or so is a viable strategy. The game even anticipates this, calling you out when you choose the industrialist path and asking why you even entered the railroad business in the first place.
Values Dissonance:
The East Africa map ("Rhodes Unfinished" scenario). It's a fun map, and it feels awesome to be connecting all these African countries, but then you realize this is the late 19th century, and you are a European empire connecting African colonies. Puts an interesting twist on the usual ambiance of tycoon games.
There are also several maps set in the pre-Civil War American South, which would mean that any agricultural enterprises the player purchases would likely be operated by slaves — and later destroyed by the war.

Awesome / Railroad Tycoon
Any time you can simultaneously buy out a rival player's company AND leave them so deeply in debt that they cannot recover.
Successfully completing some of the hardest campaign scenarios (India and Cape to Cairo from Railroad Tycoon 2 come to mind), especially on higher levels of difficulty.
The narration of the ending cinematic after completing Cape to Cairo is particularly grand, the narrator recounting that you began by pounding in spikes in Baltimore, and by this time you've wrapped the entire world up in a "big iron bow".
Building and successfully running a rail network that spans an entire continent.

Funny / Railroad Tycoon
In "Island of Hope" in Tycoon 2's Second Century campaign, as in other maps the identities of train robbers is reflective of the map and the storyline. In this case, your trains will be robbed by "starving mob", since in the story food is very scarce. This leads to the Black Comedy of papers triumphantly declaring "Starving Mob Captured!" and celebrating it means no more train robberies.
The game over message in the "Hell and High Water" mission, where the map is flooding. "So, how long can you tread water?"
Certain maps in Tycoon 2 do not allow any track to be built that is not connected to the rest of a company's network. On a map like China, this can lead to an AI player starting their company in a place like Taiwan, which does have two viable cities on the map but which is separated from the mainland by a sizable stretch of open ocean.note In the expansion Gold and Platinum Editions, you can build a bridge spanning ocean tiles to get to or from an island; the AI generally never does this, probably owing to the Shockingly Expensive Bill.

Literature / The Claidi Journals
The Claidi Journals are a series of young adult novels by Tanith Lee. The series spans four books: Wolf Tower, Wolf Star, Wolf Queen, and Wolf Wing.note  Claidi is a teenage girl in the service of a cruel princess in the equally cruel House. Her life changes when she aids the escape of a handsome foreign prisoner, Nemian. The two steal away into the desolate wilderness known as the Waste. But, as Claidi soon learns, not everything in the Waste is poisoned - particularly not the singularly terrifying and dashing bandit leader, Argul. Claidi soon finds herself at the center of tangled webs of deceit among warring families. And eventually, she must face come to terms with her own mysterious family and her identity, and choose between them and the new family she has found. You, the reader, are Claidi's only confidant on her many, bizarre adventures.
Contains examples of:
The Ace: Is there anything Argul isn't totally badass at? His status as The Ace makes the final moments of Wolf Queen all the more impressive, where it's ultimately Claidi that saves them both.
Arc Words: "Break the rules."
Belligerent Sexual Tension: Venn and Claidi in book 2 kind of have this going on.
Big, Screwed-Up Family: It's almost easier to list characters who aren't related to Ustareth...
Call a Rabbit a "Smeerp": It's not a llama, it's a graffapin. Stands out oddly, since most animals in the series aren't Mix-and-Match Critters and have their usual names.
The Chess Master: Ustareth
Changeling Fantasy: Starts out as sort of a fantasy retelling of "Cinderella", then gets... weird.
Cleaning Up Romantic Loose Ends: Whatever happened to Venn's unrequited love for Claidi? Venn, meet Dengwi... Claidi's half-sister.
Clock Punk
Clockwork Creature: Everything from people to clock tower gods.
Cool Horse: Pretty much all the Hulta horses.
Cool Airship: It's a star piloted by a robotic snake with a human face. If that's not cool...
Then when the star loses power, Yinyay (the robot snake) turns into a tower-shaped airship.
Crapsaccharine World - Chylomba
Diary: The format of the series. Claidi prefers to call it a journal.
Dogged Nice Guy: Ngarbo is type 2 to Winter.
Dystopia - The Tower City on the Wide River.
Everyone Calls Him "Barkeep": The Gardener at the Rise.
Everything's Even Worse with Sharks: The shark people in the fourth book. Subverted though, they're pretty friendly.
Evilutionary Biologist: Twilight and Ustareth, who planned to breed their kids.
Flight: One of the many functions of Ustareth's power-jewelry.
Fourth Date Marriage: The timeline's a bit fuzzy, but Claidi and Argul's engagement and marriage comes across like this, but Venn and Dengwi are a more obvious example.
Genre Savvy: Claidi, full stop.
Hair of Gold, Heart of Gold: Nemian or so you're meant to think.
Last Minute Hookup: Venn and Dengwi, who up until the end seemed to hate eachother for reasons unknown. Possibly justified, as the format doesn't allow for much insight into characters who are not Claidi/around Claidi, so we may have missed some things.
Malevolent Architecture: Wolf Star Rise, which would be a perfectly nice place if it wasn't for the fact that the rooms move unpredictably and without warning, to the point where it's possible to get lost for days on your way to the bathroom.
Manipulative Bastard: Ironel Novendot, who tries to groom Claidi into her successor as the one who interprets the Law. Her grandson Nemian shares her bastard tendencies.
Jizania takes the cake, though. Even Ironel was just a small part of her master plan.
Moving Buildings: Wolf Star Rise has moving rooms.
Names to Run Away from Really Fast: Subverted by Jelly. Then subverted again. He's Argul in disguise.
Overly Long Name: Prince Venarion Yllar Kaslem-Idoros. He'd rather you just call him Venn. Not that many people do.
Omniglot: Nemian, of all people, seems to speak the language of every village or nomadic tribe he comes across. Just what was he doing before the story started? Studying ethnolinguistics?
Pardon My Klingon: The Hulta and Venn both will frequently curse in other languages.
Claidi attempts this in the second book, yelling at Venn what the Gardener always yells at the monkeys. He tells her that it means "may you get fur balls."
Pimped-Out Dress: Averted. Claidi's wedding dress is actually very simple.
The dress she wears at the Wolf Tower and her wedding dress when the Raven Tower attempted to force her to marry are quite extravagant, however.
Plant People: Grembilard, whose hair was engineered to be half plant. A couple other people of Pearl Flamingo Village also have half-plant hair.
Prophetic Name: Claidi's name is ultimately revealed to mean "wolf on the wing."
Royal Brat: Lady Jade Leaf and Winter Raven.
Royally Screwed Up: All the families of the Wolf, Vulture, and Raven Towers.
The Unfavorite: Venn. He outright states that it's why he refuses to leave the Rise with Claidi, his half-brother Argul already made him The Unfavorite to Ustareth, he didn't want to have to live with that happening with Claidi, too.
Those Two Bad Guys: Hrald & Yazkool
Triang Relations: Claidi is involved in two-
Type 7 in the first book, with Nemian and Argul. It's actually type 10, as Nemian was just using Claidi for Ironel's benefit, and was already married to Moon Silk.
Type 4 in the second book, with Argul and Venn.
Tsundere: Venn is type A, Claidi has type B moments.
Zettai Ryouiki: Claidi's outfit on the cover of Wolf Wing.

Video Game / Planetary Annihilation
Planetary Annihilation is an RTS set IN SPACE! Created by Uber Entertainment and funded by Kickstarter, it follows factious robots in their separate (and conflicting) quests to conquer the galaxy. Players have control over all robots in their army and can build an empire across multiple star systems.
As you might guess from the title, it's another Spiritual Successor to Total Annihilation (the other being Supreme Commander), this time on a galactic scale. Not being limited to just a single planet's surface like in its spiritual predecessors, players can now build and deploy armies across multiple planets in a single map.
A standalone expansion with the subtitle Titans was released in August 2015.
This game provides examples of the following tropes:
Absent Aliens: The only thing known about the Progenitors is that they came before the commanders. One of the factions believes 1) they must be eliminated at all costs, and 2) they are even now preparing to attack and destroy the robots. There's a "Progenitor" commander, but functionally it's just a bit more anthropomorphic than the others and otherwise identical.
The background info does mention another race (Xziphid) the robots were originally created to fight by the Progenitors, but there's no sign of them either.
Action Bomb: Bomb bots. Incredibly cheap, quick to produce, and with very low health, they have no actual armament. They do, however, explode when close enough to an enemy unit or building. One or two can be picked off with ease... but you never send just one or two.
To an extent, Commanders are this - upon dying, they explode in a nuclear fireball, and some games with multiple Commanders on a side would see a Commander just walking into an enemy base and suiciding, taking out half the base at the same time (this technique is called "Com Bomb" by the community and is now not as feasible anymore due to much lower commander explosion damage).
The Manhattan is this too but slower, more expensive and has a nuke.
After the End: "The Age of Humanity is long past..."
Apocalypse How: All the way up to physical annihilation on a planetary scale, at least for small planets.
Apocalypse Wow: The dev team's goal, at any rate. If you're going to see it a lot (it's the name of the game after all), it might as well be spectacular!
Anti-Air: Every unit class and the defenses have 1-2 things capable shooting Air. Effectiveness varries greatly depending on what you need and the enemy has.
Arbitrary Headcount Limit: Completely averted. Though with enough units, even a high-end computer will begin to crawl.
Baby Planet: All the planets seen are substantially smaller than would be stable spheres. The smallest of those can be equipped with engines. See Colony Drop.
BFG: Several advanced buildings and units.
The commander has the "Uber cannon", similar in function to the two predecessors
Colony Drop: The Halley Engine allows players to change the orbits of medium to small planets. The new orbit does not have to be stable, or free of other planets...
Colour Coded Armies: With no unit cap, this is the only way to have a hope of telling what's going on in any large battle.
Construct Additional Pylons: Completely justified in-game, as you're taking part in a rolling war where only the commanders travel to planets, use up all the resources and then move onto the next, requiring that they construct everything needed to wage war on-the-go.
Crippling Overspecialization: The AI opponents in Galactic Conquest mode have preferred strategies like swarms of aircraft or bots which are easily countered. It gets really sad when an AI puts all of it's resources into naval dominance of a planet with barely enough water to hold its base.
And equally annoying if you're unlucky enough to have only unlocked vehicles at the time.
Critical Existence Failure: Commanders can walk around just fine with next to no HP, but one hit over that and they turn into a mushroom cloud.
Cyber Cyclops: A few of the robots have this.
Death from Above: Orbital Lasers take a while to build, but if the other side doesn't have anything to shoot them down...
The unit description even says "death from above".
Death of a Thousand Cuts: A lot of the Bots are cheap, weak, and short-ranged. Two or three - heck, even five or six - are no match for most other units. But get twenty or thirty, or fifty or sixty... Now with the Titans expansion there is the nano swarm.
Decapitated Army: Rather justified in that the Commander is supposed to be controlling everything. Once he's dead, the rest of the army self-destructs.
Defeat Equals Explosion: Everything explodes when defeated, but Commanders explode massively when destroyed.
Exploited with nuke tanks, which have a similarly massive explosion triggered on death
Drop Pod: How the Commander arrives on a planet.
Doomsday Device: Oh, let us count the ways!
At the smallest scale, nukes or nuke tanks will destroy almost everything in their country-sized area of impact.
An orbital loader can be equipped with locust nanites, which will destroy everything in their path.
A Ragnarok titan can destroy the planet it's built on via a missile fired directly into its core, and most of the other titans are One-Unit Armies capable of laying waste in their paths unless they meet truly monumental opposition.
The use of a Halley engine can allow you to shove a planetoid into another, destroying them both.
And finally, refitting a Metal planet can allow you to use a distinctly familiar laser to destroy planets...And it's reusable, allowing you to kill planets consecutively!
Earth-Shattering Kaboom: It's in the name.
Earth-Shattering Poster: The cover art of the box.
Easy Logistics: The only thing you need to worry about are energy production and metal extraction; everything else is automatic.
Energy Weapon: The Orbital Laser, Umbrella, and Uber Cannon, and most artillery cost power to recharge.
Excuse Plot: Unlike Total Annihilation or Supreme Commander, the game doesn't present much of a plot or story to the game. There's some background explained on the website, but it's mostly cosmetic. Even in-universe the robots have only a vague idea what's going on.
Fog of War: You can only see what your troops see, and some buildings have a firing radius larger than their sight range. Radar is a must for getting their full effect... and getting warning of approaching hordes.
Gameplay and Story Segregation: The background briefings on enemy commanders in Galactic Conquest mode make it clear that defeated Commanders are often captured and reprogrammed to serve a new side rather than destroyed. There is no possible way to do this in-game.
Glowing Mechanical Eyes
Hero Unit: The Commanders; once they're destroyed, it's Game Over.
Humongous Mecha:
The Commanders are a bit over 10 meters tall. The rest of the buildings and units are similarly large, as seen in these scale images.
The tit(an)ular Titans are, well, titanic in size compared against the other units.
Instant-Win Condition: Kill the enemy's Commander? Victory!
Fully activating a metal planet is this even against multiple opponents, since it will then destroy every other planet in the game in rapid succession.
Keystone Army: Lost your Commander? Buh-buy now.
Kill It with Fire: Flame Tanks. Short-ranged and moderately slow, but tough enough to get within reach and strong enough to take out most buildings and even commanders in seconds.
Killer Robot: Everything in the game.
Kill Sat: Orbital lasers.
Macross Missile Massacre: Many units shoot missiles. There is no unit cap.
Not Hyperbole: Yes, you can actually annihilate planets over the course of the game.
Nuclear Option: Little bit on the small scale, but still devastating to bases built compactly.
Terrain can sometimes force attacking armies to come at one or two easily-blockaded points. Just cram the opening with defensive structures and you're safe... unless you forget to add an Anti-Nuke Launcher, an oversight that can lead to instant annihilation.
Obvious Beta: Quite a lot of promised features weren't available at release. See this compilation post. (Backup screenshot)
Oh, Crap!: Can happen numerous ways. Enemy got a Kill Sat over your base and you've got nothing that can hit it? A thousand tanks closing from all sides? Nuclear missiles roaring in with no counter-missiles to stop them? Minor planet about to fall on your head? Oh, Crap!.
Orbital Bombardment: If the enemy doesn't have any Umbrellas to shoot down orbital units, an orbital laser is practically unstoppable. Just make sure that while you're busy reducing buildings to dust, the other side isn't returning the favor...
Planetville
Point Defenseless: You should never be that. If you forgot to guard against air or orbital attacks, this could be a game over in less then 30 seconds of the enemy making thier presence known.
Pointless Doomsday Device: Launching the last 2 planets at eachother, or using a ragnarock device on your commander's planet is basically suicide...but still amusing.
Quantity vs. Quality: Do you hurry and build the most advanced units to wipe out enemies from distances at which they can't even see you, much less respond? Or do you rush five hundred cheap, weak units and overwhelm everything in your path through sheer numbers?
Real Robot: Pretty close.
Refining Resources: From the start you can built "Tech 1" energy and Metal Extractors; "Tech 2" buildings can only be constructed once you've built a higher level worker.
Ridiculously Fast Construction: Everything is built and repaired by spraying glowing green stuff at it.
Robot War: The backstory suggests it started out like this, but by the time the game starts, its Robots Vs. Robots.
Rule of Cool: In the words of designer John Comes - "We are not shooting for realism; we're shooting for awesome."
Shock and Awe: The new Titans expansion adds the spark tesla bot
Shout-Out:
There's a tank called the Bolo.
The loading screen will occasionally as "What's your Vector Victor?" instead of "Rendering Vectors".
Among the possible names for random planets are SR388, Badass Crater of Badassitude, and GUNDAM.
In Galactic War mode, the description for the Qiong system mentions a system-wide scavenger hunt hosted by a food company. People gained a spot to participate by finding a golden compass in a box of cereal; the eventual winner was an eleven-year-old boy named Charlie Buket.
Space Base: Currently has the "Moon Base" variant.
Spam Attack: If you can't match their quality, you can try overwhelming them with quantity.
Single-Biome Planet: Averted with Earth-Like planets having polar regions, wooded areas, deserts, and seas/oceans. Played straight with Lava, Desert, and Ice planets. Realistic with Moons and Metal planets.
Spiritual Successor: To Total Annihilation.
Also a bit to supreme commander by taking the scale and unit limits Up to Eleven
Straight for the Commander: Since taking the Commander out is the only way to win, this will happen eventually.
Suicide Attack: Often, waves of units will be sent out as distractions or delays, with no intent of having them survive. Also the whole point of existence for the Bomb Bot, whose only weapon is the bomb on its back. Even Commanders can do this, if you have more than one - just walk into the middle of the enemy base and die in a nuclear fireball. (This is generally only done by the supremely confident or the supremely desperate, because - as previously mentioned - once your last Commander is dead, it's Game Over)
Blowing up the planet your commander is on is this... at best.
Tank Goodness: All the vehicle units look like some kind of tank. Some have anti-air missiles, some have BF Gs, and some are mobile artillery.
Tactical Rock–Paper–Scissors: Comes with teh terriory of being a RTS: Bots are good at raiding or hit/run but die to defenses. Defenses die to vehicles. Vechiles are rather vulnerable to Air. Air should really not fly to close to bot swarms
Teleporters and Transporters: Teleporters look a lot like stargates and single unit transporters are in the game. As of writing this, multi-unit transports are still taking thier time.
There Is No Kill Like Overkill: Actively encouraged.
That is just not a Metal Planet: Metal planets are actually Death Stars that have lain dormant for millennia. Starting with release a late game construction project lets you reactivate them.
This Is Gonna Suck: One of the possible reactions to seeing five hundred enemy tanks appear from one direction while three hundred (each) fighters and bombers roar in from the other. Give or take a few hundred.
Wave-Motion Gun: The Annihilaser found on metal planets. Power it up with five Catalyst structures and it'll remove any planet of your choice.
We Have Reserves: By the end of a planet-side campaign, many players are cramming out so many units they tend to send out hordes with little regard to whether they survive or not. Averted early game where losing a few Worker Units can be a large setback.
Walk, Don't Swim: Commanders walk on the bottom of seabeds while all construction in the water are placed on floating rafts.
Several Bots can do that too to support thier mobility and ability to raid enemy economy.
Walking Tank: A few of the more powerful Bots are this.
The Commander can survive a nuclear missiles to the face. You need a planet to kill him with only one attack.
World Shapes: The default shape is spherical, but any mesh shape could be imported if desired.
Worker Unit: Fabrication units, nicknamed "Fabbers". Your commander can create basic buildings, but you're going to need some dedicated units to get anything done before your untimely death. Tier 1 fabbers are faster at moving and slower at building than the Commander, but have an expanded build menu and are significantly more expendable. Tier 2 fabbers build faster and have even more build options, but are themselves more expensive and take longer to produce.
You Are Too Late: This sometimes happens with the Ragnarok titan. If it gets blown up between firing and the weapon taking effect the planet blows up anyway. Happens quite often against AI opponents, which try to time attacks to make you waste resources by finishing it just before their nukes land.
You Require More Vespene Gas: Energy and Metal. Though both are theoretically infinite, the challenge comes from producing enough to meet demand. If you can get a force behind enemy lines, generators and metal extractors can better targets than factories - they have less health, and if you leave the factories running the actual efficiency will nose-dive as resource debt skyrockets. Taking out the factories instead leaves plenty of surplus resources for rapid rebuilding.
Zerg Rush: A viable tactic in the early stages of the game is overrunning limited defenses with weak (but cheap) units, particularly bots; this was a popular tactic of Uber's Community Manager Brad.
Being a mix of glass cannon and speedster Bot's need to use that against anything that shoots back.

Trivia / Planetary Annihilation
The Wiki Rule: Of course.

YMMV / Planetary Annihilation
Awesome, but Impractical: Averted with most of the titans/superweapons, which each have their own niche.
Atlas/Zeus/Ares titian are slow and expensive, but can easily annihilate massed armies and bases on their lonesome, and can be built surprisingly early.
The Helios titian is vunrable against orbital defences, but is a rapid transporter that is otherwise hard to destroy and provides it's own air support; and it's movable, unlike ground-based stargates.
Nukes can 2-hit commanders and destroy armies, but are instantly defeated by anti-nukes: however, they can be launched anywhere in the solar system and are comparatively cheap superweapons.
Colony Drop often completely destroys not one but two planets... which also automatically destroys a lot of precious resources and precious build space: to say nothing of the cost of building the engines to move a planetiod. However, without a way to move the commander away it's an instant win and reduces the potential places they can hide commanders, on top of being a no-questions-asked instant destruction of a planet, all defences being damned.
Played straight with the Ragnarok (which can also explode planets, but is slow to build and takes time to charge as well, making it easily destructible) and the Catalyst (requires a metal planet and 5 catalysts to be built, so you probably could have won twice by the time you fire it).
Broken Base:
The Steam storefront page advertised that the game would ship with an offline single player mode after it got out of alpha. Fast-forward several months- the game has been officially released and is online-only. As of early September, the host servers are apparently unable to handle player traffic, leading to numerous connection issues and errors. Offline mode eventually came out in October.
That the alpha cost an unprecedented 100 bucks on Steam and the final version launched at 30 has also raised some hackles. It was the amount that unlocked Alpha access on the original Kickstarter, but with none of the physical goodies.
A decent amount of controversy occurred after the early access version of the game was released in retail stores, an act which many viewed as a money grab.
Quite a bit ensued after it was discovered in a beta version of a build that a commander exclusive to kickstarter backers at $50+ and those who had purchased the $200 limited edition version of the game was being retextured and sold for $10 as a charity item. This was only worsened by the Community Manager denying that the model was identical even though users had access to the files, along with locking civil disucssions on the topic and temp banning one of the more vocal forum members on this issue without warning.
Releasing the expansion as a stand-alone game, rather than a free patch, was certainly contentious to say the least. Kickstarter backers got the expansion for free; but some of those paid a lot less than those that bought the game at it's initial high price range.
Fandom-Specific Plot: What if someone had their mind uploaded into one of the Commanders in the game and was sent across the multiverse? The first three eamples of this story all have tropes pages.
So Okay, It's Average: The game plays more-or-less like a bare-bones version of Supreme Commander or Total Annihilation; it received lukewarm reception from game critics, as aside from the "wow" factor from the planetary scale, there isn't much in the way of variety or depth.
Tier-Induced Scrappy: Naval are very situational, because many maps have little to no water, but are very very powerful under the right circumstances.

Creator / Dita Von Teese
"Me personally, I want to entertain people above all. When you look back at burlesque in history and the real golden age of burlesque, those entertainers were there to entertain, and there wasn't usually some big political message behind what they were doing."
Dita Von Teese (born Heather Renée Sweet, September 28, 1972 in Rochester, Michigan) is a burlesque dancer, fashion model, author, and some-time actress, who played a large part in popularising the burlesque genre and retro fashions in the modern age.
She's also a famed sex symbol, and the ex-wife of Marilyn Manson.
The poster girl for Raven Hair, Ivory Skin, although she dyes it.
Her appareances include:
The CSI episode "A Kiss Before Frying" as a school teacher who becomes Greg's newest love interest, before becoming a murder suspect.
The upcoming film The Boom Boom Room about a naive newcomer to the world of burlesque modelling.
She also appeared in one episode of RuPaul's Drag Race as a guest judge.
She has had some acting gigs in films ranging from cameos to relatively long on-screen roles.
She was a Special Guest at the Crazy Horse Paris cabaret in 2006 and 2016.
Other than TV appearances, she was featured in electronic duo, Monarchy's song, "Disintegration" and in two of Monarchy's music videos. The first being "Disintegration" and the other being, "Black Widow".
She has recently authored a beauty book, Your Beauty Mark, containing many of her secrets and tips to her style.
Provides examples of:
Awesome Anachronistic Apparel: Her style is very much inspired by The '40s era.
Awesome Mc Coolname: Her birth name (Heather Sweet) sounds like someone else's burlesque stage name.
Bound and Gagged : She is a fetish icon as well as a burlesque one, by her own admission,
Dita: I'm into bondage. I think it's really fun, and I love playing the part of the Damsel in Distress.
Burlesque
"Darkness von Gothick" Name: Dita von Teese
Dye Hard: She's a natural blonde.
Even the Girls Want Her: Dita has noted that a large amount of her audience is actually female, not male.
'50s Hair: A prominent wearer.
Goth
High-Class Gloves: She frequently wears over-the-elbow gloves in her public appearances and photoshoots, in keeping with her retro-glamour image.
Huge Guy, Tiny Girl: With both her current beau and ex-husband Marilyn Manson.
Kinky Spanking: Back to her status as a fetish icon, Dita is very open about her sensual desires, spanking being one of them. As she puts it, "the feeling is amazing when someone spanks me right".
Model Couple: She and Louis-Marie de Castelbajac make for a Gothic example of this trope.
Ms. Fanservice: As close as this trope can come to becoming completely personified.
Of Corsets Sexy
Older Than They Look: She devotes a great deal of time and effort - wearing sunscreen whenever possible, watching her diet, removing her makeup before bedtime - to protecting her skin (writing on the subject at length in Your Beauty Mark) to preserve her youthful look.
Pretty in Mink: Some of her glamour pics include her wearing furs.
Raven Hair, Ivory Skin: As stated, her hair is dyed black, but her porcelain like skin is natural and according to her, is a result of good skin care and having a top-notch dermatologist.
Stage Name: Her real name is Heather Sweet. Yes, the one her parents gave her, and yes, they were Mr. and Mrs. Sweet. Yes, we know it sounds like someone else's stage name. For obvious reasons she needed a more suitable name to go with her burlesque image.
Punny Name: And an endlessly imitated one.
She's Got Legs
Stocking Filler
You Can Leave Your Hat On

Fanfic / Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Folly
Sakuya turned red, and instinctively knifed the too-stupid-for-his-own-good youkai.
"Am I wrong?" the pained mimicker spluttered before being kneed in the crotch.
Sakuya simply said, "You're a masochist, aren't you? Just like that celestial who caused the scarlet weather disaster. Or did you expect anything else?"
"You know, attacking someone for bringing up a perfectly valid point doesn't make you superior to them..." the weakened youkai mumbled from the floor.
"Well I... shut up." Sakuya abandoned any hope of winning the argument in word, so simply added four more knives to the guy's back.
Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Folly is the first of a misleadingly named series of Touhou fanfics written by Duwee Davis II of Fanfiction.net, and does not involve Doujin of any sort, although the description of the first book implies it started off that way. The series goes as follows:
Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Folly
Touhou Doujin: Grimoire of Dawitsu (encyclopedic spin-off)
Touhou Doujin: Holiday Edition
Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Recompense
Touhou Doujin: Jean's Magical Education
Touhou Doujin: The Forbidden Love of Yukari Yakumo (stylistic in-universe spinoff parody of Badfic.)
Touhou Doujin: The Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo (another stylistic homage spinoff, this time as a Lemony Narrator.)
Touhou Doujin: Yutaka's Big Fat Youkai Wedding
Touhou Doujin: The Epilogue (The Distant Finale of the series)
On top of that, the author has begun to release walfas videos set in-between Books 6/7 and 8 on this Youtube channel.
Very recently, the author has begun work on what he claims to be a 'sister series', which comprises of:
Twenty Years Later: Reimu's Successor- A much-more aptly named installment which is set during the Epilogue's time era, Twenty Years Later.
Twenty Years Later: Bunbunmaru Spirit News archives- A book which, in a similar vein to Grimoire of Dawitsu, has no real plot, but rather is a collection of one-shots, this time in the form of news articles written by Aya and Hatate.
The plot more or less centers around another incident in Gensokyo, this time caused by a (Brace Yourselves) a Male Self-Insert Subverted Gary Stu Original Character named Mateyuu Dawitsu and his incredibly Moe Shikigami, Yutaka Hadekawa, who have the powers of Mimicry and Manipulation of Scenery. He decides to steal Flandre Scarlet's sword Laevateinn For the Lulz. Naturally, this doesn't impress her Big Sister, who blames the incident on the local witch, Marisa Kirisame, and tries to force her to give it back by leveling her house. Going to the local hero for help, she and Reimu Hakurei end up trying to find the location of this new thief on the block. Hilarity Ensues.
Because of the sheer size of this page, tropes that apply to individual stories now have their own pages:
Dawitsu's Folly
Grimoire of Dawitsu
Holiday Edition
Dawitsu's Recompense
Jean's Magical Education
The Forbidden Love of Yukari Yakumo
The Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo
Yutaka's Big Fat Youkai Wedding
The Epilogue
Twenty Years Later: Reimu's Successor
Twenty Years Later: Bunbunmaru Spirit News Archives
Tropes that apply to the series as a whole
Actual Pacifist: Yutaka (most of the time)
This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Adorkable: Dawitsu.
Ambiguously Tengu: Dawitsu's species is indeterminate, all that's known is that he was a Youkai from birth, and has many traits similar to a Tengu (capable of high-speed flight, believes knowledge is power, wears a Tokin), but he himself claims not to be one. This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Word of God in the comments section of this video claims Dawitsu may be a Parrot Tengu.
A Spot Of Tea: Possibly Author Appeal due to the british nature of the author... it's frequently drunk by various characters.
"Blind Idiot" Translation: The parts in French in Dawitsu's Recompense and Jean's Magical Education sometimes look like they've been translated with Google Translate.
Leading to Hilariously Bad Translation at times.
Breaking the Fourth Wall: A ton of it, the main culprits being Dawitsu and Marisa.
British Stuffiness: Averted big time with Dawitsu, and later with Tomasu.
Buxom Is Better: Dawitsu fully averts this. His tastes in women include Sakuya (who in this continuity, is the This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.pad-wearing, flat-chested version.), Alice Margatroid, who's bust size is never explicitly mentioned, and Yutaka, who by all means is written as looking pretty young for her age, and is mentioned to not be much in the chest department off-hand.
Camp Straight: Dawitsu is a subtle version of this.
Chivalrous Pervert: Dawitsu.
Calling Your Attacks: As per Touhou.
The Chew Toy: Dawitsu, of the humorous variety. Tokage later on.
Department of Redundancy Department: Sporadically used, sometimes intentional, sometimes obviously unintentional.
Don't Call Me "Sir": A running theme with Dawitsu and Ran, who doesn't want her to call him 'Master'
Double Standard: Massively Averted. The writer seems about as Gender Conscious as an amoeba. In a good way.
Dramatic Ellipsis: Used... an awful... lot... lampshaded by the Author in the Author's notes several times.
Everyone Is Gay: Surprisingly considering this is set in Gensokyo, there is a mix of both straight girls and lesbians, however it should be noted that the author seems to treat homosexuality as the default sexuality of Gensokyo.
Eyes Always Closed: Yutaka
Flanderization: Everyone is a victim of it in the Gag Series of Walfas Videos/Comics. Dawitsu is now a Chronic Ditz who is more than open about his perversion, Yutaka is out and out an Insufferable Genius and a Misandric, Lustful, slightly off Lesbian, Tokage is out and out hallucinating instead of being merely delusional, and Hebiko's practically non-existent Butt-Monkey status is dragged Up to Eleven, as well as several canon characters. The only major OC that seems to catch a break regarding this is Jean, and that's mainly because he doesn't appear that often in the author's Walfas-based media.
Gag Series: The YouTube Walfas Animations are referred to by the creator as the Haruhi-chan to the main series' Haruhi Suzumiya.
Genre Savvy: Who do you think?
Hide Your Lesbians: Fully, fully Averted.
Intergenerational Friendship: Dawitsu is three-hundred and eighteen, and Yutaka is one hundred and fifty-nine. Literally half his age. Lampshaded in Jean's Magical Education.
Julius Beethoven da Vinci: Dawitsu and his family successfully stayed in the Outside World without raising suspicion by regularly being "relocated", along with changing their name.
Just Friends: Or so Dawitsu and Yutaka say...
Kawaiiko: Flandre Scarlet and Chen. Subverted with Yutaka, who, while having a young-looking body, is most certainly mature, more so than her boss.
Lampshade Hanging: There's an absolute ton of it.
Non-Indicative Name: There is not a trace of visual medium in the stories themselves, although there is plenty of artwork and animations courtesy of the author.
Occidental Otaku: Dawitsu, and how!
Oh My Gods!: Averted. Despite being of an area in which there are Gods, Shinigami, and Youkai, many characters will simply say "Oh God" instead of applicable reverences to their applicable deity.
Paparazzi: Aya and Hatate both fill this role over the series.
Perpetual Smiler: Yutaka
Platonic Life-Partners: Yutaka and Dawitsu, although Dawitsu wants more...
Postmodernism: This series goes from a typical mediocre story to a series where most tropes are, if not subverted, inverted, or lampshaded, are outright exploited or invoked, with the now removed 'Question Time' even having Hong Meiling talking about being an actress and how she wanted a larger role in the series and was screwed over by Duwee Davis himself.
Random Events Plot: While each story has an overarching plot of some sort, usually pertaining to the title of the current installment, the several sub-plots (and at times, more eventful plots) of the books seem to occur spontaneously, and usually are Chekhov's Guns or Meaningful Background Events from former installments coming to full fruition.
Really 700 Years Old: Yutaka Hadekawa, who has the body of a fifteen-to-seventeen year old, and Dawitsu, who has the body of a man in his early twenties, are around one hundred and fifty and three hundred respectively.
Recursive Fanfiction: Metroid Life of Fanfiction.net has begun writing a Fix Fic of the Troll Fic, the Forbidden Love of Yukari Yakumo, here: http://www.fanfiction.net/s/8204428/1/ Given that the cover art is the same style as the original, it's safe to say that Duwee Davis is somewhat involved in this, however, making it a subversion. Another subversion is this Walfas tennis project.
Reference Overdosed
Running Gag: Is Dawitsu a tengu? Everyone seems to mistake him for one, but he insists he's a mimicker. There's also Aya's ink addiction, which gets more and more ridiculous with every repetition, not to mention Aya's tendency to break down walls.
Said Bookism: More and more evident in the later books, while the earlier books averted this in favor of (at times) no dialogue verbs at all.
Shorter Means Smarter: Yutaka, certainly so.
Shout-Out: Oh so many.
Situational Sexuality: Most women in Gensokyo appear to be lesbians in this series, and the reasoning is out and out mentioned various times throughout the series; that there just isn't a lot of guys for a straight girl to be with.
Snark Ball: Everyone seems to hold this at some point, regardless of intelligence. The writer seems to derive a lot of humour from sarcasm, and apparently does this by making every character a Deadpan Snarker at one point or another.
Speech-Centric Work: Very much so early on, outright inverted in the narration-heavy 'Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo', and 'Reimu's Successor' seems to Zig-Zag it.
Sweat Drop
The Not-Love Interest: Dawitsu and Yutaka, big time. There's even a little flirtation despite Yutaka's Incompatible Orientation.
Trope Overdosed
Tsundere: This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Unsurprisingly, Reimu is depicted as a Type A.
World of Snark: As mentioned above, many characters hold the Snark Ball at some point. A lot just keep it with them full-time.

Funny / Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Folly
Entire Series
Just about any moment with Suika could be seen this way.
Holiday Edition
Chen managing to KO Yukari with a frying pan.
Jean's Magical Education
Jean telling Marisa and Mokou to 'kiss and make out'
The Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo
One of Hebiko's Lemony Narrator moments includes this gold: 'Jumping to conclusions is a practice similar to jumping over a shark infested pool... while there's every chance you were right to do so, the majority of the time, your choice to jump is a bad one.' WHAT TIME IS IT GOOD TO JUMP OVER A SHARK INFESTED POOL?
Many of the Lemony Narrator's snarky definitions are pretty hilarious.
Yutaka's Big Fat Youkai Wedding
The Narrator getting embarrassed at looking at Yutaka and Patchouli consummating their marriage.
And the contrasting Head-Tiltingly Kinky antics of Ran in a moment both disturbingly close to Black Comedy Rape yet so ridiculous that you can't help but find it funny despite the fact Dawitsu is freakin' traumatized by the experience!
The Epilogue
When Marisa seems to be dead, Reimu says '...Marisa? Marisa... please... please get up... I don't want you to die. I don't want to see you go... I still have so many things I want to do with you, so many days I wanna waste with you... please... don't leave... I never thought I'd say this, but... I... I... I love you, Marisa...'. Cue Marisa waking up, and saying, 'That was seriously the gayest thing I have ever heard. Lesbian.'

Heartwarming / Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Folly
Holiday Edition
A scene in Holiday Edition doubles as this and a CMOA and involves two perverse Otaku seeming just about ready to ready to kidnap Sakuya and take her home. Dawitsu comes in and declares 'What are you doing staring at my wife like that?' and proceeds to take Sakuya away from the area, saving her from perverts without her having to knife the poor idiots.
The scene in Holiday Edition in which Dawitsu dresses up as Santa Claus to give his Christmas presents to Ran, Chen, Yutaka, Patchouli, Aya, Suika, Sakuya, Yutaka and Tomasu. And also, the fact that Tomasu missed Dawitsu's otaku-esque attitude so much that he bought the English Dub of the Disappearance of Haruhi Suzumiya for him.
Dawitsu's Recompense
The moment in Dawitsu's Recompense when both Dawitsu and Yutaka think back to the same event separately - when Dawitsu introduced Yutaka to his brother for the first time. His brother berates him and accuses him of keeping Yutaka (who he thinks is an underage girl) as a slave, and sends him away from his house. From Dawitsu's perspective, he simply left in shame, Yutaka joins after a short wait, and suddenly, his brother tells him not to leave, and says he's okay with it. Once you see Yutaka's perspective, you realize she stayed behind to explain the full situation to Dawitsu's brother, that she was homeless, Dawitsu took her in, and that he should be ashamed for treating his brother like crap. She says that Dawitsu trusted him to be understanding, and that he was wrong... and it was THAT that caused Tomasu Dawitsu to have a change of heart.
The fact that Yutaka sleeps on the floor next to Dawitsu's bed when he's recovering from a near-fatal stab to the heart so she can be there when he wakes up.
When Reimu meets Jean for the very first time, he decides to take her home. After his previous statement about being lonely, and the young nature of Reimu, coupled with the downright creepy description of Jean the first time round, leads to the reader thinking Jean is going to rape Reimu. Once they get into his apartment, however, Jean inflates an air bed, and offers Reimu to sleep in his bed while he sleeps on the air bed. We misjudged you, Jean. We misjudged you. A reviewer even said as much, 'I thought he was a creepy rapist when he was first introduced. But, it looks like I was wrong.'
Jean's Magical Education
Dawitsu decides to write a will in case he dies, and decides to leave his entire mansion to Yutaka, and also leave the estate also in Ran's hands even if she leaves his service before he dies...
At one point in Jean's Magical Education, Dawitsu goes over to the Scarlet Devil Mansion to teach Flandre after a long time not doing so, Flandre welcomes him with open arms, hugging him and squealing 'BOY-SENSEI!'.
Marisa comforting Jean after he finds out he's Myouren's reincarnation. She tells him 'It's gonna be alright, Jean... I know you're more than just some dumb copy of Byakuren's brother...'. When asked how she knows this by Jean, she replies with 'Because I'm your friend.', then stops, and says '...man, I didn't think I'd ever be so mushy...'. Jean further adds to the Squee! factor by replying with 'I... I like this... how you say... mushy... you a lot...'. Marisa says he shouldn't get used to it.
Yutaka offering Reimu to have a Slumber Party with her- Yutaka offers with 'Anyway, I have a hot date with a radiator, a blanket, and a cup of warm herbal tea... you know, you can join me too...', and Reimu replies with 'I... that would be nice.'. Before realizing she's a Tsundere again, and saying 'But just this once... don't think you're my friend, or anything...'.
The moment where Flandre and Remilia finish reading Of Mice & Men together... also serves as a Tear Jerker... although, the source material certainly helps for fulfilling the latter category...
Simultaneously a tear-jerker and a heartwarming moment- the scene in Magical Education where Alice repairs Medicine and treats her with some affection, making her happy for the first time in her life... which promptly ends her life as a Youkai (as she was born out of abandonment)
The Forbidden Love of Yukari Yakumo
Surprisingly, in the reviews for the Troll Fic 'the Forbidden Love of Yukari Yakumo', there's one regarding Yutaka. She takes offence at Tokage using 'flat-chested' as an insult, and takes comfort in something Dawitsu told her; 'Flat-chested girls can be held closer to the heart'
A strangely heartwarming instance occurs in Chapter three's reviews, when it's revealed that Sakuya indeed does have a bandage fetish, and that Dawitsu went along with it during their time as Friends with Benefits to make her happy in bed... it's nice that a man would be willing to do that for someone he only considers a friend, really...
The Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo
Another surprising heartwarming moment comes from the Lemony Narrator of 'the Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo', when in chapter thirteen, she talks about how it's okay to cry every now and then, and that bottling feelings up isn't good for you.
Yutaka's Big Fat Youkai Wedding
The moment in 'Yutaka's Big Fat Youkai Wedding' where Merlin lets Youmu stay with her and her sisters. Lyrica plays a welcoming tune on her keyboard, Merlin shows Youmu to her room, and tells her that despite the fact that she knows her 'sisters' aren't really her biological sisters, she loves them in exactly the same way.
Yukari showing her Hidden Heart of Gold in chapter 9 and comforting Reimu after telling her that she was adopted all along, and that her adoptive mother died, but genuinely loved her (rather than simply leaving her).
Seeing that Yuyuko genuinely does care for Youmu, and only wants her to be happy.
Dawitsu playing 'one, two, three, flying' with Medicine 'Merriment', making it seem that he could be a genuinely good father if he wanted to.
When Yuyuko brushes Youmu's hair, straightens her collar, and tightens her ribbon before wishing her good luck with her upcoming wedding performance. She then proceeds to call her her 'adopted daughter', just to cement how truly loving she is of Youmu.
Remilia sticking up for Patchouli and Yutaka in front of Yukari, of all people. And then, when she inevitably gets curb-stomped, everyone else sticks up for her.
Marisa out and out volunteering to help Reimu raise her to-be adopted child and telling her that she is not alone, cementing them as True Companions.
The author's note of the final chapter:
'Author's Notes: This is it, guys. La finale. Zuíhóu de juésái. Kesshou. Finalem.
The end.
I will conclude this series. This is the final major book. But before I disappear from the Touhou fanfic circle, I wanna do a couple things, because I've left a speculative plot hanging. Firstly, I'm going to do an interactive interview fic, in which I'll allow you reviewers to ask any amount of questions to any amount of my Original Characters or butchered Canon Characters, with one chapter each dedicated to answer the questions of every reviewer.
I will also write up a one-chapter epilogue which will take place when all the characters grow up, as the epilogue here goes on about.
Then, I will leave the touhou fanfic circle, and hope I've left something of an imprint on this place.
I just want to say, it's been an absolute honour writing for people like this. Even though my writing style is fluffy, WAFF, and many other plot-lacking things, I feel glad in knowing that I have made people happy in one way or another. That's my maxim of life... to make others happy.
And not just a 'put on a façade to please others' sort, either. I'm talking about doing things that will warm the heart of others. I hope that I have done this for you guys... I sincerely do.
I'll never forget this experience, and knowing me, I'll probably continue drawing artwork and program up the TH 13.5 I've been working on to go along with this fic series...
I guess that I can now work on my original story, university, and maybe even finish off my 100 days fic from all those years ago...
Goodbye, my friends. Goodbye. I can honestly say I've been touched by you all. Even anon, as he's managed to make me able to laugh at myself. I cannot thank all of you readers enough.
See you. Bye. Adios. Au revoir. Arrivadercci...
(bursts into tears)'
The Epilogue
Hebiko supporting Tokage all the way through her writing career now that she's successful...
Whenever Reimu makes a Freudian Slip implying that she truly sees Patricia as a daughter.
Reimu telling Marisa that she loves her when she thinks she's dead.

YMMV / Touhou Doujin: Dawitsu's Folly
Entire Series
Fan-Preferred Couple: In a fanfic, believe it or not. Some reviewers of Dawitsu's Recompense expressed that Dawitsu and Yutaka should be together. One reviewer (most likely sarcastically) suggested an OT3 of Dawitsu, Yutaka and Alice. The review is here, for Chapter 24. Also, an OTP between Dawitsu and Ran has apparently been desired from one reviewer since the first book. It ends up happening.
Growing the Beard: Some would say Dawitsu's Recompense is the start of a significant leap in writing technique by the author.
Relationship Writing Fumble: Sure, Dawitsu and Yutaka are just friends. Sure, the UST is one-way...
Dawitsu's Folly
Cargo Ship: Aya and her press. Squick
Ron the Death Eater: Remilia and Yukari. Rounded out later in the series, but UNFORGIVABLY so here.
The Woobie: Ran. She is reportedly abused by Yukari, taken for granted and treated as inferior to Yutaka by Dawitsu, and is almost made to be a bargaining chip as part of Dawitsu's plan to get Yutaka back.
Grimoire of Dawitsu
Cargo Ship: Dawitsu seems to be onto Aya's overly-affectionate treatment of her press...
Draco in Leather Pants: Not exactly an extreme example, Dawitsu seems to not mention Yuuka Kazami in too much of a bad light, considering she's quite sadistic, even in Canon. Perhaps it's because he's a Youkai as well.
Genius Bonus: Several of the more scientific-sounding sections are based on high-level scientific principles, and even some of the more basic sciences go into such detail that it can be hard to keep up.
Memetic Mutation: The sheer amount of memes mentioned is practically innumerable in this book.
Ron the Death Eater: A side effect of the Unreliable Narrator, Dawitsu is biased against many people to the point of demonizing them.
Holiday Edition
Strangled by the Red String: Played With. Sakuya and Dawitsu certainly seem to be playing this straight, however, a big subversion comes in at the end, in which Dawitsu decides it's better if they are simply Friends with Benefits. This is further played with by Recompense, in which Sakuya breaks up with Dawitsu because she's found someone who takes her seriously, which triggers the entire events of Recompense...
Dawitsu's Recompense
Evil Is Sexy: Sex Drive certainly thinks so, but possibly because she gets turned on by everything.
Memetic Mutation: Ran and Chen are looking for a manual as they do not know how to play the game. How do they know of a manual's existence? Dawitsu once said "If you need instructions on how to get through the hotels, check out the enclosed instruction book.'
Moe: Flandre Scarlet has a ton of Moe moments. That, and Yutaka in a Gothic lolita outfit, complete with Nosebleed courtesy of Dawitsu. The Author lampshades how Moe his depiction of Flandre in the Author's Notes of chapter four.
One-Scene Wonder: The Dawitsu Chibi clones that assist Marisa in her battle against Reimu.
Strangled by the Red String: Finally brought full-circle after Holiday Edition and Deconstructed. After ending Holiday Edition as Friends with Benefits, Sakuya breaks up with Dawitsu as she's found someone willing to have a committed relationship with her.
Tastes Like Diabetes: Meta example, the Author mentions in the Author's notes that he thinks he's been overdoing the OC x OC and that he's getting Type 2 (self-induced) Dialogue Diabetes. There's actually no overt evidence of this in the book.
Jean's Magical Education
Angst? What Angst?: Dawitsu actually makes a joke about his near-death experience in the last book, which actually surprises himself.
Genius Bonus: Byakuren's 'whirling snake' dream is actually a reference to how the scientist responsible for figuring out the structure of Benzene had his Eureka Moment.
Hollywood Pudgy: Kaguya apparently gets fat from all her inactivity. She dies of a thrombosis, but due to her Immortality, she comes back to life, and gets fat again. So Eirin and Reisen force her to go running and lose a bit of weight.
The Scrappy: Tokage is hated by many readers.
The Woobie: Good lord, Ran again, and the reason why's only mentioned within the last two chapters, but suddenly a lot more things in the series makes sense... Ran is, and has been for a while, in love with Dawitsu... so she's had to deal with Dawitsu going after Sakuya and pining over Yutaka for God knows how long... POOR RAN!
The Forbidden Love of Yukari Yakumo
Crack Pairing: Sexy!Dawitsu and Idiot!Yukari... when Dawitsu quite clearly sees Yukari as a rival/enemy, and Yukari sees him as a nuisance/idiot.
Designated Hero: Why is it that Dawitsu and Yukari are in the right when Yutaka's been cheated on? Beyond Tokage's narration claiming this love is 'true love'? Also, once Yutaka is indisputably evil, Yukari doesn't really... do much that's heroic.
Draco in Leather Pants: Yukari, in the main series, is closer to Ron the Death Eater territory, but here, she's emphasised as overly beautiful, innocent, wistful, and kind. Dawitsu is no longer a perverse, scrawny Otaku with no luck with the ladies and an annoying streak, but as the hunk of every Mary Sue's dreams. Dawitsu even gets to wear leather pants!
Faux Symbolism: Sunflowers... flowers in general being a running motif... reeks of pretentious writers' attempts at symbolism.
Foe Yay: See Crack Pairing.
Ho Yay: Rapist!Aya and Rapist!Satori both try it on with Idiot!Yukari.
Like You Would Really Do It: Hachuurui's 'death' is received by reviewers with extreme cynicism, reviewers knowing that Tokage would have to bring her Self-Insert back...
One True Threesome: The ending is basically Idiot!Yukari, Inexplicably resurrected!Hachuurui, and Sexy!Dawitsu all being together in a massive threesome. The end.
Ron the Death Eater: Almost every other character involved except for Yukari and Dawitsu, Yutaka especially so. The only character that doesn't fit into either this or the inverse is probably Yuyuko, but even she is out-of-character.
So Bad, It's Good: Dawitsu finally decides to stop bitching about the awful quality of Tokage's story and instead enjoy it for the easy-to-poke-fun-at crap that it is...
True Art Is Angsty: Tokage certainly thinks so. To quote chapter eleven's author's notes: 'And another thing you won't see in Hebiko's stories are the heart-stopping action and the tragic description of grief that make art what true art is! Painful! Art isn't there to make you feel good, it's there to make you feel bad!'
The Woobie: Subverted. Tokage is someone who desperately wants to write a book, and does. However, practically everyone who reads it hates it, and the one person who does like it ends up hating it also, with most of the copies being bought for the sole purpose of creatively destroying them (if the reviews of the final chapter are anything to go by). She loses her friends over it, and she alienates everyone she tries to become friends with with her social awkwardness, and goes through an unseen, unspeakable torture from Yuuka that leaves her clearly traumatised. At the same time, she mostly deserves all the crap she goes through, and is a genuinely pompous, pretentious, sex-obsessed moron, yet most would agree she didn't deserve the latter trauma...
The Misadventures of Yukari Yakumo
Creepy Awesome: Discussed by Hebiko in the Author's Notes, directed at Yutaka's performance when she first met Reimu and Marisa, saying she'd love to play up her creepy side like that.
Fridge Logic: The narrator has this regarding Yuyuko's gluttony... she realizes she doesn't actually need to eat because she's a ghost...
Genius Bonus: This 'definition'; ' her agreement with Dawitsu had made it infeasible- a word which here means 'of positive Gibb's Free Energy'' refers to an equation in the field of chemistry relating Standard Entropy, Standard Enthalpy Change, Temperature, and the feasibility of chemical reactions.
Jerkass Woobie: Arguably the narrator, on accounts that she lost something she was hoping to raise into an adopted child, yet still does highly morally questionable acts, such as Mind Rape.
So Okay, It's Average: The reaction of Momiji to the book, admitting it's far better than Tokage's, but at the same time can't see it being marketable.
Yutaka's Big Fat Youkai Wedding
Genius Bonus: This speed; 'running from the awkward situation faster than a cathode ray' isn't actually that fast, and most people can run faster than a Cathode Ray.
Ho Yay: A little between Merlin and Youmu, if you read between the lines. As well as, you know, the freaking girl on girl wedding the book centers around
Strangled by the Red String: Ran and Dawitsu. The end of their Will They or Won't They? was not exactly well-done.
The Epilogue
Tear Jerker: The ending... Yukari and Yuyuko accept the series has ended, and sing 'We'll meet again', while the other characters hear it in their hearts, and seemingly accept their time is up as well...

Light Novel / If Her Flag Breaks
Souta Hatate is a high school boy who has the ability to see flags that provide choices during important events in life, which also allows him to see the future. Souta decides to break the flags instead of dealing with them in order to distance himself from others so they won't be involved with him, having had bad experiences with it in the past.
That changes on his first day at Hatagaya Academy, when he prevents people from dying in a lorry accident, drawing the attention of one of his classmates, Nanami Knight Bladefield. Nanami doesn't trigger any flags, so Souta can't figure out how to make her go away, forcing him to reveal his power to her.
So begins a chain of events which results in Souta acquiring a harem as he tries to uncover the secrets behind his power.
If Her Flag Breaks, also known as Kanojo ga Flag o Oraretara (彼女がフラグをおられたら), is an ongoing series of fantasy romantic comedy light novels that started in 2011 written by Tōka Takei and illustrated by Cuteg. It has a manga adaptation that is serialised by Monthly Shōnen Rival. There are two manga spinoffs: one called Kanojo ga Flag wo Oraretara: Ooyuusha yo, Flag wo Tateteshimau to wa Nanigoto da!?, which is in a RPG-Mechanics Verse, and another called Kanojo ga Flag wo Oraretara: Root Love, which has as yet no info in English. The series also had an anime adaptation in the Spring 2014 Anime season.
Crunchyroll is streaming the anime, and may be watched here for viewers living in the following areas: USA, Canada, UK, Ireland, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Latin America (Central and South America, Caribbean).
If Her Flag Breaks provides the following:
Accidental Pervert:
In chapter 5, Souta accidentally walks in on Akane in the bathroom.
In episode 2, he gets pushed into the girl's bathroom by Megumu who chickens out at the last minute.
Acquainted in Real Life: Main character Souta meets upperclassman Rin while training for an athletic meet. Rin keeps telling him what a pathetic guy he is and how her childhood friend Soda is the only real man she's ever known. After talking for a while about that she decides to text Soda. Souta immediately receives a text from his long-separated childhood friend "Rin-kun" saying "I was just talking and started thinking about you. Wish I could see you". The two stare at each other for a few seconds before both freaking out, all the more so since Souta thought said childhood friend was a boy. Somewhat oblique example since both "knew" who they were texting, just didn't know that their new friend was the same person.
A-Cup Angst: Nanami is rather insecure about her flat chest, especially when compared to Akane, or even Tsumugi who has a rather large bust size despite being really short.
Affectionate Parody: Of the Harem Genre, by infusing it with Rapid-Fire Comedy and packing in pretty much every Character Archetype Love Interest ever invented for it, then turning said characters Up to Eleven.
All Myths Are True: Nanami finds out in episode 12 that the fairy tale she heard from her mother about how their kingdom came to be turns out to be true, and that once a generation, someone in their family is born with supernatural powers. The person this time happens to be Souta, who turns out to be Nanami's younger brother.
Alternate Universe:
Souta is taken to one by Mei in episode 7. At first everything seems normal, but Rin and Kikuno don't recognize him. He then sees the death flags of various girls that were shown before he changed them played out, such as the truck killing Nanami, and sees a person on the ship he was on when it sank. Said person was suffering from a Despair Event Horizon, though thanks to Souta's encouragement, they decide to live on and help others out, much like he did. Except that person wasn't him in the past, but rather his homeroom teacher Miyuki Hatate, who turns out to be his granddaughter in this timeline.
In episode 13, Number Zero reveals more to Souta about the parallel universes and their significance. She was trying to find a way via running various simulations in other universes to see if humanity would be able to stand up to Angel Boat, which threatened humanity's existence.
Always in Class One: Averted; most of the main characters go to class 1-F, save for Rin, who's a year ahead, and Kuromiko, who's in middle school.
Antiquated Linguistics: Nanami speaks in classical Japanese.
Assassin Outclassin': Souta barely manages to escape with Nanami and Hakua in episode 8 when an assassin attacks them.
Attention Deficit... Ooh, Shiny!: Several characters seem to display this, such as Mimori and Kikuno.
Awesomeness by Analysis: How Nanami finds out Souta's ability.
Balanced Harem: Most if not all of the girls (and one guy) appear in every chapter/episode and get about the same amount of interaction with Souta because they all live under the same roof. They also share equal amounts of fanservice and it's possible for any of them to win Souta over.
Bare Your Midriff:
Megumu's swimsuit in episode 6 has a top and bottom portion. Though he doesn't really need it as a guy, it's played up as if he were a girl, and Nanami hilariously does an Eye Poke on Souta when Megumu first takes his shirt off.
The outfit that Number Zero, the lady following events surrounding Souta wears, reveals her belly.
Beach Episode: In the twelfth chapter of the manga (episode 6 of the anime), a few members of the cast (Souta, Megumu, Nanami, Ruri, and Tsumugi, and in the anime Kikuno, Akane and Rin also get a turn) hang out at the beach.
Bedmate Reveal: In episode 3, Souta is awakened by Akane on top of him. A few moments later, Megumu is also found sleeping next to him.
Big Damn Heroes: Nanami and the Quest Dorm residents do this for Souta at the end of episode 12, arriving in a ship that looks suspiciously like the Premium Ambriel, and wiping out the death flags that were scattered across the sea.
Big Eater: Nanami exploits the date and free food she wins with Souta after winning the beauty contest to eat quite a bit of food in episode 10. When he inquires about it, she says that she might as well take advantage of the situation.
Bishie Sparkle: How Souta appears to Akane after he thanks her for her help in asking the class to help rebuild and renovate Souta's decrepit apartment in episode 2.
Blank White Eyes: Both Nanami and Akane when they first lay eyes on Souta's "house", which is an abandoned apartment way out in the boondocks.
Blood from the Mouth: Souta coughs up a lot of blood near the end of episode 7 after being shown an alternate Earth where he died and never met the girls, but ends up saving another character who then becomes motivated enough to have the "main character" flag pop over their head. Mei tries to help him, but she's only able to delay the onset of the flag, rather than being able to completely remove it.
Blue with Shock:
Happens to Souta in episode 2 as he sees Nanami in the bathroom getting ready to throw something at him for entering while they were changing.
Also, in the same episode, several of Souta's classmates have this expression when Kikuno tackle-hugs him to the ground.
Bridal Carry: Souta does this to Nanami in the last event of the sports festival in episode 4 after they accidentally knock the table over and it falls on her leg.
Broken Bird:
Souta. As the series continues, we discover that he's holding himself apart from others because his big sister disappeared, and everyone but Souta lost all memory of her. Souta believes it was because of his powers. Consequently, he tends to blame himself when bad things are in the offing.
Kurumiko. Both of her parents were working on the ship that sank and Souta was the Sole Survivor of it. And she's struggling to make ends meet when he first meets her in episode 6.
Brutal Honesty: Nanami gives one to Souta when she's forced to give a Love Confession to him onstage during a beauty contest in episode 10. While she doesn't give him one, she does note that despite his gloomy mood, he has been getting a little bit better with all of his friends around him.
But Not Too Foreign: Nanami and her half-sister Hakua both had Japanese mothers. So is Souta, the younger full-brother of Nanami and older half-brother of Hakua.
Cassandra Truth: Souta reveals to Nanami about his ability to see flags above people's head, but she dismisses it as a joke at first.
Celibate Hero: Souta knows how a lot of his haremettes feel (his power makes it obvious, among other things), but he doesn't feel in any position to reciprocate.
Cerebus Roller Coaster: You'd be forgiven if you thought this was going to be another romantic comedy harem show based on the cheery opening/ending songs. Then Souta's Dark and Troubled Past crops up from time to time to remind you that there's a dark side to the story. The show does at least try to balance out the serious drama with the comedy hijinks, though prepare for some Mood Whiplash when it does this.
Chick Magnet: Souta was a minor magnet when he was younger, and it only appears to have got stronger as he's grown up.
Childhood Friends: Souta with Kikuno and, as it turns out, Rin.
Childish Pillow Fight: Several of the characters have one in episode 8 at Akane's house when Nanami calls her. The latter gets jealous when she inadvertently missed out on the fun, but Akane promises to have one with her. And in the next scene, while Nanami is waiting for them at the airport, the first thing that happens is Akane throwing her pillow at her.
Cliffhanger: Episode 5 ends on one, with Souta going into the forest to examine the cause of a bright source of light. He runs into a girl who then says she knows about his ability to see flags.
Clingy Jealous Girl:
Mostly Played for Laughs with Kikuno in episode 7, after getting upset that Kurumiko becoming Souta's little sister would mean he wouldn't need a big sister. She ultimately decides it would be best if she accepts Kurumiko as her little sister as well.
Rin plays it more straight when she sees Souta sleeping on Kikuno's lap at her house in episode 8, using the excuse that it would make him lazy. The former later mentions she doesn't mind seeing him like that.
Cloud Cuckoo Lander: Several of the characters seem to be one.
Color Failure: Poor Megumu suffers this every time he is mistaken for a girl.
Comically Missing the Point: Souta attempts to cheer up Hakua after the king passes away in episode 9, by telling her he wouldn't want her to be sad. The other characters then arrive to cheer her up, and somehow it turns into a cheering event for Souta. He immediately wonders why they're cheering for him instead of Hakua.
Cool Big Sis: Kikuno is Souta's self-declared big sister, so she does sisterly things for him, such as making him lunches, giving him advice, and being a little too affectionate sometimes. She also acts like a big sister figure to the rest of the cast.
Crash-Into Hello: A new girl bumps into Souta at the end of episode 10, and pleads for him to hide her.
Crazy-Prepared: Ruri tells Souta she found the underground passage in episode 5, and then said it was collapsed. So she then shows him the passageway that she dug out with a drill attachment.
Cross-Popping Veins: A few characters display this after Mimori says that the renovated building will have to be shut down if there's only one resident in it. She then says they need at least five people living in it as she's being carried off by other students.
Curb-Stomp Battle:
Hakua's Ninja Maid squad is no match for their opponent, a Robot Girl that resembles Ruri, though the real Ruri says it's a mass produced model, though they at least buy enough time for Hakua, Souta, and Nanamii to escape.
Souta's friends suffer one at the hands of the Big Bad in episode 13. It manages to knock them out of the fight after using its powers against them. Only Souta manages to hang on and even he has trouble at first trying to get close enough to it.
Cursed With Awesome: Souta can see flags above people's heads, but due to incidents in the past with it, he tries to distance himself from everyone as much as possible. Not that it stops Nanami from trying to get closer however. And because of the fact that he can alter people's fates, he gets watched rather closely by a group that oversees such magic things. Episode 13 reveals he obtained this power when he saw a pillar about to crash onto the people attempting to remove the debris that fell on him on the Premium Ambriel. He was given the opportunity to save them, and alter other people's fates if he took up their death flags on himself in the process, and having to bear that burden and torment alone.
Curtains Match the Window: Rin has green eyes with hair of the same colour.
Cute Little Fang: Nanami has one.
Cuteness Proximity: Kurumiko tends to invoke this on several characters, such as Mei, who originally didn't want to stay in the Quest dorms until the former's sad face causes her to reconsider.
Dark and Troubled Past: Kurumiko, leading her to initially be something of a Stepford Smiler.
Dark Is Not Evil: Number Zero, and the Council of Seven Elders. Though she's dressed in black and a mask, and the council usually sounds vaguely evil, in actuality they're attempting to protect the Bladefield Principality, as well as humanity as a whole, when the Angel Boat beings attempt to start taking over the virtual world such as in the stock market. She even goes so far as to save him, Nanami, and Hakua from a killer robot in episode 8. She removes her mask in episode 13, and Souta finds out she's Kagura Bladefield, the founder of the Bladefield Principality. She admits that forcing him to fight Angel Boat was kind of a jerk move, but Souta doesn't hold it against her.
D-Cup Distress: After Souta accidentally grabs Akane's bra off mini-Ruri in episode 8, she grabs it back out of embarrassment. Several of the other characters then mention how big the cups are, along with Ruri holding a sign stating it as well.
Debut Queue: Each of the early episodes introduces a couple of new characters that gradually join Souta's Unwanted Harem.
Defrosting Ice Queen: Rin is very harsh and cold towards Souta at first when she's introduced in episode 3. However, after she realizes they knew each other from the past, she warms up to him.
Delayed Reaction: Mimori has one in the beginning of episode 10 when she tries to see Souta in his room, only for Hakua to be in there with him. They greet each other, then a moment passes before Mimori develops a shocked reaction and wonders who she is.
Despair Event Horizon:
Several of the girls Souta runs into have death flags pop up over their head, and he struggles to try to replace them with a different flag:
In Akane's case, he replaces it with a love flag. It works quite effectively.
With Kurumiko, he says they should be brother and sister. It works initially, but she starts to despair about other things, and he says she should come to his school and live in the Quest dorm, so she wouldn't have to be alone anymore. Her death flag is then replaced with a story flag, and Ruri comes by shortly afterwards to rescue them.
Souta himself went through one in episode 13, after the man he saved runs off saying he's going to get help, but doesn't return for quite a while. Ultimately subverted when the man shows up with a lot of people, including some of the female characters, and they attempt to lift the debris off of him.
The Determinator: Akane is the first person Souta runs into whose flag, while broken just as easily as others, comes right back up shortly afterwards.
Deus ex Machina: Nanami invokes this by name in Episode 12 as Lampshade Hanging.
Double Standard: Abuse, Female on Male: Nanami hits Souta quite a bit.
Driven to Suicide: Episode 9 reveals the immense pressure and guilt Souta felt from other people due to being the Sole Survivor in the Premium Ambriel sinking. He reached the point of holding a knife to his throat, although he subverts it by not going through with it. Episode 11 reveals he didn't go through with it because he saw Serika sitting on a swing with a flag on her head, and wanted to do at least one more nice thing before he took his life by talking to her and giving her hope. But after talking to her he reconsidered suicide.
Dude Looks Like a Lady: Due to his very feminine appearance and attire (thigh high socks and shorts), Megumu is mistaken as a girl by many characters when they first meet him. The fact that he wears the male uniform (or at least the blazer) is the only way anyone could see that he was actually a boy.
Dynamic Entry:
Nanami does one on Souta at the end of episode 1, after he gives a kiss to Akane to erase her death flag with a romance one.
Ruri does a variation of this in episode 8 while Souta is spending time at Kikuno's house. She drops in from the sky, causing a large dust cloud when she lands. She then essentially kidnaps Souta, and delivers him to Akane after she offhandedly mentioned missing him. The other girls end up joining them after he calls Kikuno to let her know where he was.
Ear Cleaning: Kikuno does this to Souta in episode 2.
Early-Bird Cameo: A couple of examples:
Serika is seen singing in a video playing on a large screen near the corner where Nanami first meets Souta in episode 1. Although she appears as one of the girls in the ending, she doesn't interact with the main cast until around the very end of episode 10 and the beginning of episode 11.
Megumu and Tsumugi are both seen in the same classroom Souta transfers into during the first episode. The camera even focuses on them for a brief moment along with Akane, though they don't speak and aren't properly introduced until the next episode.
Earn Your Happy Ending: Souta has to go through quite a bit before he gets one. Fortunately his friends provide him a helping hand even though he tried to keep them out of his issues.
Easy Amnesia: Sakura appears before Mei in episode 7 after the latter delays the onset of Souta's death flag. However, she strips the latter of her ability to see flags and several of her memories that she saw when trying to help Souta.
Elaborate University High: Hatagaya Academy is an Elevator School with its own internal train service.
Epic Fail: Mini-Ruri encounters an "evil" version of herself in episode 8. She says she'll take responsibility for her "younger sister", a mass produced model that was exported to Europe. She rushes the evil Ruri, only to have the latter simply step over her. Souta, Hakua, and Nanami then scream and run off as evil Ruri chases after them.
Establishing Character Moment: At the beginning of episode 1, Nanami is waiting for a walk signal at an intersection. One guy talks to another, and says he's going to ask his girlfriend to marry him after his business deal is done. Just then a traffic accident occurs in front of them, and a big semi is heading their way. An unnamed boy, wearing the same school uniform as Nanami, says something to the gentleman. As that happens, the truck suddenly veers away from them, causing her to wonder what just happened. The boy, who turns out to be a New Transfer Student Souta, later reveals to her that he wiped out that guy's "death flag", by suggesting to him that the business deal would go bad, so he shouldn't do it.
Event Flag:
Souta's main power is the ability to see flags over people's heads as well as alter them, such as replacing a death flag with a romance one as he does for Akane to keep her from dying in the first episode.
Mei appears to have the same power as evidenced during her introduction in episode 6 and when talking to Souta in episode 7. However, she loses that ability shortly after meeting with Sakura, who gave Souta that power in the first place, stating that her interference would alter things. She also erases Mei's memories of those things, so she forgets everything about it.
Evolving Credits: At the end of the closing credits, a silhouette of various characters is seen on a flag. In episode 12, the silhouette is removed to reveal the various girls in their respective roles to help Souta out.
Expy: Rin and Souta's relationship is very similar to Yozora and Kodaka's namely their childhood.
Eyelid Pull Taunt: Nanami does one in the opening.
Eye Poke:
Nanami does this to Souta when he tries to explain about the boat accident where he was the Sole Survivor of it.
She does it again in episode 6 when Megumu is taking his top off to reveal his swimsuit. Souta even asks why she did that.
Fanservice: Used quite blatantly in episode 10 during the "wet t-shirt/swimsuit competition', complete with Souta being forced to shoot the girls and Megumu with a water gun.
Festival Episode: Episode 10 has a school festival at the character's school.
First Kiss: Souta does one with Akane to prevent her from losing hope and dying.
First-Name Basis: When Nanami tells Souta her name, she tells him to refer to her by her first name, not her surname. She also warns him not to attach honorifics like "san or "chan" to her name. Akane also insists he use her first name as well.
Forgotten First Meeting: Rin met Souta when they were younger, as shown in episode 3. Interestingly, although they didn't meet face to face for a long time, she kept in touch with him via cellphone, as they both find out after she texts her friend "Souda", only to have Souta's phone receive the text.
Foreshadowing:
The pseudo-chess game in chapter six of the manga foreshadows several characters' roles in the story.
When Miyuki, the teacher, is deciding where to put Souta in episode 1 of the anime, the camera pans across the room, zooming in on Akane, Tsumugi and Megumu. (Earlier in the scene, you can see the backs of their heads.)
Formula with a Twist: This story has a protagonist with a unique power to see various types of Event Flags and the instant knowledge of what he needs to do to keep it (such as a Story Flag) or break it (such as a Death Flag). In the course of using these flags, he gains the affection of multiple girls, usually after breaking their death flags and saving their lives in some way.
Freudian Excuse: Souta tries to be a loner, but it's due to being the Sole Survivor on a ship accident, followed by a lot of scrutiny and blame tossed by other people as a result of it. He contemplates killing himself, but doesn't go through with it. As a result however, he attempts to avoid making friends since he doesn't want to burden them with his problems. Not that it works very well once the series begins however.
Friendly Rivalry: Souta's harem is one of the friendliest examples of a harem around, with the members largely treating it as a good-natured competition, and being willing to encourage each other in their pursuit.
Full-Name Basis: How Mei addresses Souta.
Funny Background Event: Ruri putting on a special waterproof suit so it doesn't short her electronics out at the beach in episode 6.
Genki Girl: Kikuno seems like she's drank too many cups of coffee.
Genre Savvy: In Chapter 17 of the manga, Souta realizes he's on summer break, in a hot spring, surrounded by girls. Perfect for harem protagonist wacky hijinks. He tries to leave, but it's already too late.
Girlish Pigtails: Kurumiko has this hair style, which fits her cheerful personality. Hakua has it as well, fitting her child-like behavior.
The Glomp:
In the first chapter of the manga/episode 2 of the anime, Kikuno affectionately glomps Souta after not seeing him for a few years.
Several of the characters seem to like doing this to Souta from time to time.
Akane does it to Hakua in episode 9.
Gone Horribly Right: Souta's attempt to erase Akane's death flag with a romance one by giving her a kiss after she falls through his floor and talks about giving others hope. Unfortunately it worked a little too well on her...
Got Volunteered: Souta is asked to sign a paper vouching for all of the girls and Megumu in the Quest Dorm to enter a beauty contest in episode 10. He is also forced to be a judge on it as well.
Granny Classic: Tsumugi is a classic Japanese granny... in the body of a young girl.
Gratuitous English: Ruri tends to ask a question regarding her helping someone, then asks "Yes or no" when awaiting a reply.
Green-Eyed Monster:
Kikuno unintentionally causes this reaction when she dotes on Souta a bit too much in class.
Nanami in episode 8 when calling Akane over a video phone. At first she thinks the latter is lonely, er bored just like she was. But then the other characters show up in Akane's room, and they have a pillow fight. Nanami watches as the others have fun and gets a hissy fit because she missed out on it. The battery on her tablet/phone runs out shortly afterwards after Akane promises to have a pillow fight with her. And fortunately for her, the characters visit her in her country in the second half of the episode.
In episode 10, when Hakua transfers to Souta's school, his classmates are excited by it, and state that she looks like a princess. Nanami, who is also in the same class, then gets up and whines that she's a princess too.
Green Rooming: Mei is introduced in episode 6, and has an introductory scene that's very reminiscent of Souta's when he first transferred to the class. Afterwards the class trip takes place and she's quickly forgotten about as they introduce Kurumiko to the story, as well as filling in more of Souta's tragic past. She finally gets more screen time in episode 7.
Hair Color Dissonance: Rin's hair is usually shown as black in all media, but sometimes it's depicted as black with green highlights or forest green in manga and light novel covers and illustrations.
Happily Adopted: In episode 6, when Kurumiko asks if she could be Souta's "sister" in spirit, he sees a death flag over her head. In an attempt to get rid of it, he says they could be real brother and sister. When it doesn't remove the flag, he says she should move into the Quest Dorm and attend school with him. Her death flag is then replaced with a story flag.
Head Pet: Mini-Ruri does this with Nanami in episode 8 when the latter is looking for Souta on the train.
Helping Would Be Killstealing: In episode 7, Mei happily says she'll help Souta (who's unconscious at the time) out after trying to remove his death flag by force, and realizing the burden he was trying to carry on his own as a result of his ability to see flags. However, Sakura, the girl who gave him said abilities in the first place, takes her powers away, along with her memories of such incidents, stating that he has to discover the ultimate truth on his own. When Souta reawakens, Mei has no recollection of anything that just happened, nor can she see flags any longer.
He Is Not My Boyfriend: Nanami says this in episode 11 when Serika assumes she and Souta were on a date when they ran into her.
Heroic BSoD:
The Quest Dormitory group have a collective minor one upon learning Kurumiko is Souta's adopted imouto.
More seriously, Souta suffers a major one during the course of the sports festival, which also affects their team's ranking when they start losing during the second day due to his lowered morale. He even contemplates that leaving might not be a bad idea, because he tells Ruri he's probably going to die soon, and if he's too connected to the girls, it'll just hurt them that much more. However, Ruri tells him there might be a way for him to get rid of his death flag.
Hero Secret Service: Ruri, who often helps Souta out and protects him and the other Quest Dorm residents quite often. Episode 12 reveals that a part of Nanami's personality was secretly stored inside of her as well, and she transfers it back to Nanami after the latter breaks into Souta's room.
High-Pressure Emotion: Nanami after she realizes she made a fool of herself at pointing at Souta when he first comes into her class. A steam puff even leaves her head.
Hime Cut: Rin has this hairstyle, which goes nicely with her samurai outfit.
Hope Spot:
Souta sees one in episode 11 when Serika shows a golden, glowing flag above her head, and similar flags stream from people's heads towards hers, which then flows to him. Then Number Zero shows up and tells him that they need him to reach out to the Angel boat. He later decides it'd be best if he removed his presence from the memories of the people he's interacted with throughout the show.
Episode 13 has Nanami and the other characters arriving to assist Souta in his fight, and things initially go very well for them. However, the Big Bad shows up shortly afterwards, and delivers a Curb-Stomp Battle, knocking Souta's allies out rather quickly.
Hot Springs Episode: Episode 8 has one at Akane's house. Naturally Souta accidentally sees the girls walking into it, after Akane forgets to tell him and Rin that the hot springs use time differs for men and women. Fortunately Rin distracts them long enough for him to escape unnoticed.
It's All My Fault: Kurumiko tells Souta this in episode 6, when he largely got blamed for the sinking of the Premium Ambriel, despite her parents, as crewmembers, not being able to save anyone. For his part, Souta doesn't hold a grudge against her at all, and forgives her.
I Was Quite a Looker: Tsumugi, to the rest of the cast's consternation.
I Want to Be a Real Man: Megumu tries to be manly, but due to his feminine appearance, and the way he acts like a girl most of the time, it doesn't work too well. Special mention to the fact that his ideas of what actually constitutes "manly" are often somewhat odd.
Idiosyncratic Episode Naming: All chapters/episodes are called "flags".
Impaled with Extreme Prejudice: One occurs in episode 8, when Souta, Nanami, and Hakua are saved from evil Ruri by the masked blonde who impales the robot from behind with a sword.
Improbably Female Cast: Souta and Megumu are basically the only significant male characters. And most people accidentally mistake the latter as a girl.
I'm Taking Her Home with Me!: Well, Souta probably didn't really want to with Kurumiko. But a death flag appearing over her head, along with her being an orphan struggling to make ends meet and hoping to save enough to attend school forced his hand, as he didn't want her to suffer alone anymore.
Lap Pillow:
In the sixth chapter of the manga, Souta finds himself laying on Kikuno's lap after he wakes up from a dream.
In chapter 16 of the manga/episode 7 of the anime, it's Mei's lap Souta finds himself lying on.
Kikuno gives him another one at the beginning of chapter 17/episode 8. Mei offers in the same chapter, but doesn't go through with it.
Kikuno gives one to Hakua in episode 10 while preparing for the school festival.
Laser-Guided Amnesia: Sakura inflicts this on Mei in chapter 16, making sure Mei doesn't tell Souta certain things, particularly concerning her origin.
Little Miss Snarker: Nanami uses this in episode 11 after hearing about "purple flag guy", the boy who inspired Serika to continue being an idol. She jokes with Souta about this, and they both laugh after he claims he doesn't know who that guy is. She then develops a serious look and asks him who else would go around talking to people about flags.
Loads and Loads of Characters: There are quite a few characters in this show. The opening and closing credits should give you a small clue as to how many of them there are.
Locked in a Freezer: Well, it's a cave by a beach, but otherwise the trope is played straight in episode 6. Kurumiko shows Souta a secret cave that she frequently visits to help soothe the hardships she's going through since both of her parents died. Unforunately the tide begins to rise, and soon they're trapped in the cave as the water level rises higher. A death flag also appears over Kurumiko's head, prompting Souta to try telling her various things to remove it; ultimately it's them becoming brother and sister, and having her move into the Quest dorms and attend school with him that helps eliminate that flag.
Lonely Rich Kid: Akane starts off as this. Nanami looks to have been in a similar position, being a lonely royal kid.
Loners Are Freaks: Nanami is worried that Souta may become one of these types if he keeps pushing everyone away from him, so she tries to keep him from doing that. The other girls and Megumu in the series also attempt to keep him from being alone.
Long-Lost Relative: Souta finally remembers who his older sister is in episode 13. It's Nanami, who herself forgot about him and only remembered a short time before he does.
Long Title: One manga spinoff is called Kanojo ga Flag o Oraretara: Ooyuusha yo, Flag o Tateteshimau to wa Nanigoto da!?
Loophole Abuse: Used twice in episode 4:
When Souta talks to Ruri privately about a worry he's having, specifically that he was going to die soon, and he can't seem to get rid of that particular flag. He then utters some words he recalled from an earlier meeting that triggers a backdoor password to a program inside of her. She reveals to him that there may be a way for him to remove that flag hounding him with the help of a group of people. But he has to first find the group of people who's going to help him in said quest.
The second one occurs at the end of the episode. Souta's team doesn't place first in the sports festival. However, Mimori also says that the team that stands out the most and has the best group effort can win an MVP title, which is essentially the same as winning first place. Though Souta's team lost the final event, because of the teamwork they showed, the board of directors decides to give him the MVP title, which allows him to stay in the Quest dorms and in school.
Souta in the first episode finds out he can replace a death flag with a love one when attempting to save Akane. Unfortunately for him, it works a little too well on her, who then falls in love with him.
Losing Your Head: Ruri, the Robot Girl who joins the Quest dorm largely to serve Akane in episode 3. Due to the shock from the fall her box took, her head falls off as she introduces herself, understandably freaking out all of the characters, particularly as she continues speaking while her head is detached.
Luminescent Blush: Rin blushes whenever she's around Souta.
Magic Kiss: Ruri does one to Nanami in episode 12 after the latter breaks into Souta's room. She finds out that part of her memories/personality was split, and that Souta is her younger brother.
Male Gaze: Episode 7 focuses on Mimori quite a bit when she's wearing a sundress for her date with Souta.
Marked to Die:
When someone has a death flag on their head, it's a sign that they're going to die soon unless Souta breaks the flag or raises another flag in its place.
Mei attempts to break or at least alter Souta's in episode 7, but ultimately the best she's able to do is delay its activation.
Marshmallow Hell: In chapter 12 of the manga/episode 6 of the anime, Tsumugi accidentally subjects Souta to this after she tries to comfort him.
Meaningful Name: Most characters have a last name (or middle name in Nanami's case) that shows what role they have in the story.
The "Hata"(旗) in Souta Hatate's last name means "flag''.
Nanami Knight Bladefield is the princess knight.
Akane's last name, Mahougasawa, has "mahou"(魔), which means magic. It's indicative of her role as the magician.
Megumu's last name, Touzokuyama, contains "touzoku"(盗賊), which means thief.
Ruri Ninjabayashi is the shinobi of the group.
The "Eiyuu" (英雄) in Rin Eiyuuzaki's last name means hero.
The "Shoukan"(召喚) in Kikuno Shoukanji's last name means summons, referring to her role as the summoner.
Tsumugi's last name, Ryuukishibara, contains "ryuu"(竜), meaning dragon, and "kishi"(騎士), meaning knight - in other words, a dragon knight.
Mei Daimyozamurai is the samurai.
Kurumiko's last name, Daishikyougawa, has "daishikyou"(大司教), meaning archbishop, indicating her role as the cleric.
Mimori's last name, Seiteikouji, contains "seitei"(聖帝), which means holy emperor.
Angel Boat, the Big Bad of the series (or the anime at least), is literally a ship with some glowing angelic wings.
Meido: In the school's "Fancy Dress Sleigh Race", the group (including Souta) wear maid uniforms since wearing a dress is required in the contest. Nanami decides to wear a princess dress instead.
Mind Screw: The last three episodes of the anime does a Genre Shift, and the romantic comedy aspect of the show takes a backseat as the sci-fi/fantasy portions go into high gear in the story. One may have to watch it a few times to understand exactly what was going on, or read a guide online.
Miniature Senior Citizens: Zig-zagged by Tsumugi. She was a fully grown adult who shrank as she got older - she just didn't age, resulting in her current appearance as a young girl. To her, this is perfectly normal. To everybody else, it's deeply weird. In one episode, she shows the cast a photo of a pretty woman in a kimono which, judging from the quality of said photo, was taken sometime pre World War II. She was quite a looker indeed.
Mistaken for Gay: Souta towards Megumu. The latter likes to remind everyone he's a guy, despite his very feminine appearance and clothing. While regular people assume Megumu is a girl, the other female characters assume this anytime they see the two guys doing anything resembling romance, such as the date in episode 5, or them riding together in wedding outfits in a parade during episode 9.
Mr. Seahorse: Poked fun at, but ultimately defied, with Megumu. Since everyone constantly mistakes him as a girl, someone eventually mentioned that he would have a much cuter child with Souta than Akane, but he clearly said it isn't possible and suffered Color Failure as usual.
Mood Whiplash:
Episode 7 starts off fairly normal, until Mei shows him a much darker alternate Earth where he wasn't around, and several of the girls who had death flags over their heads get killed.
Episode 8 is fairly light-hearted as well, until shortly after Souta meets Hakua, Nanami's younger sister. They're then attacked by a Robot Girl that looks suspiciously like Ruri, though mini-Ruri says it's most likely a mass-produced model that was exported to Europe.
Episode 9 follows with a similar whiplash, where the first half is light hearted comedy, while the last part of the second half goes into darker territory when Souta is confronted by Number Zero for the first time.
Episode 11 continues the trend by ending with Number Zero revealing the whole series is Inside a Computer System and Souta removing himself from existence.
Episode 12 has an odd one. It shows Souta fighting against members of the Angel Boat, and has a generally dark tone to it. Then the cheery opening song plays...
Mundane Made Awesome: The characters who are spinning with arms interlocked in episode 2, who then turn into a tornado somehow. Souta wonders how exactly this happens. It happens again in episode 10, this time with more characters doing it after the beauty contest.
My Greatest Failure: Akane mentions to Nanami about how she went to a library and met a girl her age there. They had a lot of fun together, but her family refused to let them stay friends due to their differences in social standings. Hence why she felt so determined to be friends with Souta and her, because she sensed they needed help just like that girl from before.
Mystical White Hair: Mei has silvery-white hair and is from an alternate world. She also has (or had) a weaker form of Souta's Winds of Destiny, Change ability.
Never Trust a Trailer: The opening credits imply that Number Zero is an antagonist of Souta and his friends. But episode 12 reveals that they're actually trying to protect humanity, and want to use Souta's powers to do so, since the Angel Boat beings intend to destroy humanity.
New Transfer Student: Souta starts the series as a mysterious transfer student at the school. Mei enters the school as one too.
Nice Job Breaking It, Hero!:
Mimori, while talking to the board of directors for their school, inadvertently adds a condition that Souta gets kicked out of the dorms if his team doesn't win the sports festival in episode 3.
In episode 8, Souta is enjoying the hot springs at Akane's house. He then sees someone approaching, and thinks it's Megumu, but instead it turns out to be Rin. Both of them are wondering if they got into the wrong bathhouse, and Rin hides Souta while the other girls enter. Akane later mentions that the hot springs has set hours for men and women, but forgot to tell Rin and Souta.
Nice Guy:
Souta is a reliable and helpful person in general, which is one reason why so many characters are attached to, or attracted to him.
Akane is a sweet and kind girl who would do anything in her power to help someone if they need it.
Ninja Log: A variation of this is done in episode 10 with Kuromiko. She was supposed to be one of the judges for the beauty contest, but instead a small doll resembling her is seen by the judge's table. The real Kuromiko is walking around the crowd selling items like she did prior to meeting Souta.
Ninja Maid: Hakua's maids in episode 8 seem quite capable of combat. Unfortunately they're no match for their opponent, a Robot Girl that looks like Ruri.
No Good Deed Goes Unpunished: Souta experiences this in episode 13, after he finds himself on the Premium Ambriel again and saves a man by holding up a bookshelf that had fallen on him long enough for him to get out from under there. Unfortunately a large stone tablet breaks and collapses, pinning Souta underneath. The man he saved looks at it briefly, then slowly backs off, claiming he's going to find help. However, he doesn't return for a long time, and the little girl who was with Souta says humans are all the same regardless of the world they're in. This trope is ultimately subverted when the man returns with a lot more people, including some of the female characters. He really was unable to help Souta on his own, and even their combined effort still couldn't get him up before a pillar was about to collapse on all of them.
Nonuniform Uniform:
Megumu wears striped thigh-high socks and shorts instead of the pants that's included in the boy's uniform.
Mimori wears boots instead of shoes, doesn't include socks with her uniform, and wears black gloves.
Kikuno wears an apron over her uniform.
No-Sell:
Kikuno's flag dodges Souta attempts to break it.
In episode 12, the Angel Boat beings attack Souta with a powerful attack that kicks up a lot of dust around him. However, after it settles, he's revealed to be completely unharmed, and activates death flags on them.
Not So Above It All: Nanami tries to act like she's not interested in the antics of the things going on around the Quest dorm. But when she's by herself in there in episode 5, the first thing she does is roll around the floor back and forth like a kid.
Not So Different:
Souta says he doesn't want to get close to anyone because of misfortunes that will hit them. Nanami then has a Flash Back of her own where she too was lonely back home, and tells him she's not buying his excuse.
When out on a date with Mimori, Souta talks about her Genki Girl persona and how she seems to be enjoying life. A Flash Back shows her visiting her sick brother who says what Souta said almost word for word to her. She then says that she'll try to help him out as much as possible regarding getting Kurumiko into their school.
Not What It Looks Like: When Akane sees Megumu cuddling up to Souta in episode 2, she gets the wrong impression.
Oh, Crap!: Megumu has this look after the girls see him wearing a wedding dress, sitting next to Souta in a tuxedo while in a parade in episode 9.
Ojou: Nanami and Akane, though they're currently not relying on their families.
Older Than They Look: Tsumugi Ryuukishibara, the school elder, has the appearance of a young girl. When asked about her age, she shows them an old picture of a tall woman who doesn't look much like her. As a result, they don't believe the picture, but she insists that you get smaller as you age.
Only Known by Their Nickname: People usually call Tsumugi "Baba-sama", a polite term for an old lady.
Out of Focus: Despite being seemingly one of the major protagonists of the show and getting a lot of screen time in the opening (as well as the cover page illustration in the picture above), Nanami largely falls by the wayside as the other girls and Megumu get to spend time with Souta and doesn't seem as pivotal to the plot for quite a while. She even tries to avoid the spotlight, often opting to not go wherever Souta and the others go, or take part in many of their activities.
Parental Abandonment: In episode 6 Kurumiko tells Souta both of her parents worked as crewmembers on the Premium Ambriel. Because Souta was the Sole Survivor of the accident that sank that ship, it meant that her parents died and she's been struggling just to survive ever since then.
Peek-a-Bangs: Mei, representing her desire to remain emotionally aloof and guarded.
Phenotype Stereotype: Nanami, who's from a small country in Europe, has blonde hair and blue eyes.
Polyamory: Most of the girls (Akane especially) don't want to have Souta all to themselves and actually encourage the others to share him.
Potty Emergency: Mimori suffers one in episode 3, but tries to deny it. Judging by what Ruri states, she may have suffered a slight Potty Failure.
The Power of Love: Souta attempts to use this to overcome Akane's death flag in the first episode after she falls through a weak spot in his apartment, by giving her a kiss. Oddly enough it works, and her death flag is erased by a romance one, along with several others that pop over her head.
Rapid-Fire Comedy: The anime brings so many gags and jokes in quick succession it can only be called this.
Rapunzel Hair: Nanami and Rin have long hair past their backs.
Recognition Failure: While Nanami goes into fan girl mode instantly, Souta has no clue who Serika, a famous idol, is in episode 11.
Relationship Sabotage: During Akane's portion of the date with Souta in episode 5, she tells him that she asked her parents for advice on where to go for a date. She then says her father mentioned a lake with a rowboat for couples. Her father also said any couple who took that boat ride together would certainly break up. Interestingly, while Souta sees the obvious connection, Akane says that since they're technically not a couple, what her father said wouldn't come true.
The Reveal:
Nanami and Hakua introduce their older brother, the crown prince, in episode 9. They tell Souta and the others that he's been watching over them and taking care of them more than the current king, their father has. Shortly after this however, the prince holds a press conference revealing the king passing away, along with an assassination attempt on both girls, who are 13th and 14th in line to become the next ruler. After a reporter asks about this, he says the girls are actually his daugthers, and are the true heirs to the throne. Neither one of them was aware of that until that point, since they always thought of him as their older brother.
A bombshell is exposed in episode 12 by Ruri to Nanami. Specifically that Souta is actually her brother, and part of her consciousness was separated from her in the virtual world when she attempted to follow him there at one point in the past. Her other half tried to escape, but was unable to get back to Nanami, so buried her memories inside Ruri, who was sleeping nearby.
In episode 13, Number Zero removes her mask for Souta. She turns out to be Kagura Bladefield, the original founder of the Bladefield Principality, and bears an uncanny resemblance to Nanami.
Robot Girl: Ruri is a female android (who also holds the role as the ninja of the group) created by the Mahougasawa Foundation.
Running Gag: Megumu's gender confusion. The girls keep mistaking him for a girl. He either suffers a Color Failure, or goes Blue with Shock and has Dull Eyes of Unhappiness if he hears it. He got even more depressed when he heard that he (or Nanami) might have a much cuter child with Souta than Akane would.
Say It with Hearts: Megumu and Kikuno sometimes pepper their sentences with hearts.
School Festival: Episode 4 has a sports week event, where Souta and the girls try to win first place in order to avoid shutting down the dorms and him getting kicked out of school.
Screw Destiny: The tale from the Bladefield Principality suggests that Souta, who has a death flag over his head he's completely unable to remove, is fated to sacrifice his life for the greater good of stopping the Angel Boat. Nanami and the others however, decide this fate sucks, and helps him to defeat those beings.
Screw the Rules, I Have Connections!: Mimori attempts to use hers to get Kurumiko into their school, along with moving her into the Quest dorms. However, it becomes subverted in that she's ultimately unable to get her in. Nevertheless, Mei uses her "connections" to get Kurumiko in after seeing how sad the latter looked after being told by Souta and Mimori that they failed to help her.
Secretly-Gay Activity: Megumu is a very pretty boy who grew up with sisters who liked to force him into feminine habits. Because of this, he has no idea how to look or act masculine and "befriends" (highly implied to be a romantic crush) Souta because he was the first person to recognize him as a "he". Because of this, Megumu often wants to do "manly" things with Souta, such as going to the bathroom together, which usually carry very romantic or sexual connotations.
Secretly Wealthy: Akane's family turns out to be really wealthy, though she doesn't flaunt it around. In episode 8, most of the main characters spend some time at her mansion.
Serious Business: When the others hear about Souta taking Akane out on a date in episode 5, they all rush him and question him on it. Then they decide to all go out on a date with him one at a time, partly because of the efforts they put into the sports festival in the previous episode.
She Cleans Up Nicely: Rin, when she wears regular clothing in episode 5 during her portion of the group date with Souta.
Sheltered Aristocrat: Hakua's a Constantly Curious version, to the point she thinks popcorn is life-threatening to make. Television is also fascinating to her due to never having been exposed to one before meeting with Souta and his friends.
Ship Tease: The anime implies one between Akane and Souta at the end of episode 12.
Shout-Out:
In chapter 6 of the manga, Mimori looks like Doraemon for a panel.
In the ninth chapter of the manga, one of the students participating in the survivor game shouts "Upham! Upham! Ammo, dammit!".
In episode 8, Akane mentions "The Crawling Chaos". Also, one of the maids on the train pulls out a P-90 from under her skirt and assumes the exact same pose Henrietta from Gunslinger Girl does.
"Silly Me" Gesture: Akane does one in episode 8 after forgetting to mention that the hot springs use time differs for men and women to Souta and Rin. Naturally he's in there when the girls show up as a result.
Sneeze Cut: When Souta first meets Hakua, Nanami's younger sister, in episode 8, she asks him if he's a ninja. He says he's not, but knows someone named "Ninja-bayashi". The scene then switches briefly to the mini-Ruri that's with them on the train who then sneezes.
Sole Survivor: Souta when the cruise ship he was on, the Premium Ambriel, sinks. Due to the immense press publicity he received, largely negative, he's been trying to avoid the spotlight and people as much as possible before the start of the series.
Spoiled Sweet: Despite her privileged background as the granddaughter of the founder of the Mahousagawa Foundation, Akane is very sweet and cares for everyone.
The Stinger: At the end of the first episode, Souta saves Akane's life by replacing her death flag with a romance one. However, as he looks in the mirror, he sees a death flag over his head...
The Stoic: Mei, although meeting Akane and the other girls leaves her Not So Stoic, and she becomes a Defrosting Ice Queen as time passes.
Strange Minds Think Alike: Everyone who sees the way Tsumugi treats Souta over the beach arc reacts with "She's doting on her grandson".
Strong Family Resemblance: Nanami bears a striking resemblance to Kagura Bladefield, the original founder of the Bladefield Principality. Souta and viewers find this out when the latter removes her mask and Souta initially mistakes her for Nanami.
Student Council President: Mimori takes her job as the school's student council president very seriously. She holds a lot of power in school due to her strong political ties with it and being the board chairman's granddaughter.
Stupid Sexy Flanders: Although Megumu wears the boy's vest, his appearance is very feminine, and also wears thigh high stockings. When he curls up in Souta's arms after being called a boy in episode 2, the latter is momentarily distracted by his appearance and smell. In episode 5, Megumu has some cream on the side of his face, and asks Souta to get it off, but makes it look like he wants a kiss. All of the other women in the cafe suddenly have a kissing flag on their heads as they see Megumu drawing close to him.
Super-Deformed: Ruri has a miniaturized version of herself that goes with Akane and the others to Nanami's home country in episode 8. Megumu in particular finds mini-Ruri to be extremely cute.
Suspiciously Specific Denial:
Mimori claims she didn't pee in her pants in episode 3 after Kikuno gets really angry at her for entering Souta into a competition where he'll be expelled if he loses. Moments later she says she needs to stop by the restroom, then corrects herself and says the student council office, and walks away very awkwardly, as if holding in her pee.
In episode 5, Nanami says she's not going out on the group date with Souta, and then "drops" an ad featuring cakes. She tells him not to worry about getting the things on the flyer, especially those limited time cakes, while showing him the flyer. She later gets mad at him when she finds out the other girls didn't know anything about it, but then the scene cuts to Souta tying a bag to her doorknob, indicating he did remember to bring some cake back to her.
Tempting Fate:
In the first episode, Nanami can't help but wonder who that boy she saw at the intersection was that seemingly prevented a semi truck from hitting them. Her only clue was that he was wearing the same uniform for her school, but since the school is really big, there's no way she'd be able to find him. As she's thinking that, the teacher presents a New Transfer Student, who just happens to be that boy she saw. She gets up, points at him and screams, before turning red from embarrassment and sitting back down.
In episode 6, because of a mixup by Mimori, Souta ends up on both lists of students going to the beach, and students going to the forest for a field trip. Due to some bad experiences with the ocean, he's uncomfortable being on the beach, and is quite relieved to be going to the forest for the second half of the trip. But then his teacher announces that the two groups will be switching locations for a change of pace, and since he was technically part of the forest group by that point, he ends up on the beach again. This ultimately helps him find Kurumiko however, who has an important story flag over her head, which Souta has to use in order to advance the plot.
Third-Person Person:
Kurumiko.
Akane tends to speak this way at times as well.
Thunder Shock: This happens to Souta and Nanami in the first episode when Akane says she can't leave anyone that needs her help.
Token Mini-Moe:
Tsumugi has this role because she looks like a little girl and appears to be the youngest member of the cast. But she's actually an old woman who might be even older than the school itself. She also acts as a mentor of sorts to the rest of the cast.
Kuromiko also has this role, as she's the youngest character in the cast and is unofficially adopted as a little sister by Souta.
Took a Level in Badass: Souta in episode 12 turns into an action guy, fighting off the Angel Boat beings singlehandedly. He does start to tire out towards the end of the episode, though Nanami and the others in Quest Dorm arrive to help him out.
Training Montage: Chapter eight of the manga and episode 3 of the anime displays a montage of the rigorous training Rin made the gang do in order to prepare for the sports festival.
Tsundere:
Nanami is a mild case in general. Akane attempts to get her to invoke it on one occasion on the grounds that it's "the most joyful thing a boy can hear!", but it just bounces off Souta. Though in episode 10, after giving him a Brutal Honesty speech, Ruri states that Nanami's "Tsundere level" is at 530,000.
Mei develops into one as time passes. Hilariously, in episode 8, she at first replies somewhat normally that she wasn't concerned about him. But then she stops about halfway through her speech, and then says it more coldly and turns her head away in a fasion befitting this trope. Kurumiko then says Mei was the most worried of all the others about Souta's whereabouts.
Turned Against Their Masters: The Angel Boat beings, who grow hostile towards humans and start wreaking havoc in the virtual world. Though most regular humans see it in the form of electronics screwing up and them taking control of the stock market, it's implied that if they manage to conquer the virtual world, humanity would be doomed.
Underdogs Never Lose: Souta's team does rather well during the first day of the sports festival in episode 4. But then they start suffering losses in the second day. Mimori states that winning first place isn't the only way to win, as the festival also emphasizes teamwork, and whichever team shows the most team spirit can earn an MVP (Most Valuable Player) title. Which comes in handy for them, when they place second behind the baseball team in the last event. But because of the teamwork they showed, Souta's team wins the MVP, and doesn't have to worry about getting kicked out.
Un-person: Souta does this to himself at the end of episode 11, removing himself from the memories of all the people he's met up to this point. Nanami however is unaffected by it.
Unusual Euphemism: "The fish are gathering!"
Unwanted Harem: Souta begins to develop one largely thanks to Nanami threatening to beat him up if he keeps using his Loners Are Freaks attitude towards everyone trying to get to know him better.
Verbal Tic:
Akane always ends her sentences with "desu".
Megumu ends nearly every sentence with "yayo".
Ruri uses "Y/N" at the end of every question.
Tsumugi ends her sentences with "be", and attaches "bou" (child) to names.
Hakua tends to repeat the last two or three syllables of every sentence. Like "shimashita, mashita." or "desu, desu".
Villainous Rescue: Souta, Hakua, and Nanami are saved from the evil Ruri in episode 8 by the masked blonde lady, Number Zero, who's seen opposing him in the opening credits.
Waterfall Puke: In the twelfth chapter of the manga, Souta vomits after being in contact with the sea due to it making him sick because of the Premium Ambriel incident.
Wham Episode:
Episode 7 takes a much darker turn in the show's usual light-hearted comedy. Mei takes Souta to an alternate Earth, one where he died, and therefore never met any of the other characters. Death flags that were raised around him in earlier episodes end up killing several characters, due to his absence such as Nanami getting hit by the truck from the first episode along with all the other people standing in the corner, along with Akane falling through the broken floor, and Kurumiko drowning in the cave by the beach after the high tide comes in.
In episode 11, Souta learns more about his ability to see flags and alter fate. In the end he removes himself from the memories of all the people he's met in the current world he was in, though Nanami seems unaffected by it.
During episode 12, Souta vanishes and is forgotten about by everyone except Nanami. A lot of time seems to pass in the world, as the girls are seen during winter time, then Mimori's graduation comes up. During all that time, Souta has been fighting the Angel Boat beings in the virtual world, preventing them from taking over the world and destroying it for humanity.
Wham Line: Akane says one at the very end of episode 11 after Nanami mentions finding Souta for the dance party:
Akane: "Who's Souta-kun?"
Wholesome Crossdresser: Megumu is spotted on the beach in a dress at the beginning of episode 7. He states that his sisters, who live near the resort, stole his clothes and replaced with with girl's clothing. Interestingly, this isn't brought up during episode 11 or 12 when he's wearing a dress.
Why Did It Have to Be Snakes?: Being surrounded by water for Souta, due to a tragic incident while traveling on a boat.
Winds of Destiny, Change: Souta has the ability to see flags on top of people's heads, allowing him to see and change important events and choices in life. He can also break flags by taking action to prevent events he doesn't want to happen. He's not up on all the nuances, however, particularly when it comes to the way his friends' flags appear (or don't). Mei had a lesser form of the ability before she lost her memory.
Yandere: Rin has distinct tendencies this way, though so far she's been prevented from going full-on yandere. Souta understandably freaks out anytime he spots it though.
You Are Better Than You Think You Are:
What initially seems like a "The Reason You Suck" Speech by Nanami to Souta in episode 10's beauty contest turns out to actually be one of these, when she thanks him for all he's done despite having his gloomy mood. It touches him that he even sheds some tears, and the other girls cry as well, shortly before they form another friendship tornado. Up until this point Souta thought no one noticed or cared that he was having a lot worries, and this later helps convince him that the world was worth fighting for against the Angel Boat later on.
When Serika tells Souta and Nanami about her past when she first started out as an idol in episode 11, she told them about a low point in her idol career. She thought about giving it up, until an unnamed boy told her to continue on, because she would become a great idol that would touch the heart of people. She doesn't realize right away that said boy was actually Souta, though Nanami figures it out right away due to the fact that the boy mentioned a flag above her head.
You Are Not Alone:
Souta is told this by the various girls in the show.
In episode 6, Souta tells this to Kurumiko, who's been struggling to survive ever since both of her parent's died.
You Gotta Have Blue Hair: Few characters have ordinary or plausible hair colours. Even some of the ones that do have normal hair colours have hair that's unusually bright:
Kikuno has bright lime-green hair.
Kuromiko has purple hair.
Rin has forest-green hair (when it's not stylised as black).
Mimori has dark purple hair.
Tsumugi has light pinkish-purple hair.
Ruri has blue hair.
Zettai Ryouiki: All of Souta's harem. Including Megumu.

Headscratchers / If Her Flag Breaks
Is that weird asymmetrical green braid that Nanami has actually part of her hair or is it fake?
It's probably a part of it. She probably braided and dyed it, then left it alone to make it more unique.

Trivia / If Her Flag Breaks
Portmanteau Series Nickname: Gaworare, which is also used by the creators themselves.

Film / Ida
Ida is a 2014 film from Poland, directed by Pawel Pawlikowski.
The film is set in Poland in 1961. Anna is a novitiate nun, having been raised from infancy in a convent. With the date when Anna is to take her vows rapidly approaching, the Mother Superior tells Anna that she must first visit her only known relative, Wanda Gruz, her aunt. Anna goes to see Wanda, who could not be more different than her niece. Wanda is a Communist judge, who smokes, drinks to excess, and is very promiscuous. Wanda has a big surprise for Anna: Anna is actually Jewish. Her real name is Ida Lebenstein. Ida's parents—Wanda's sister and brother-in-law—were killed During the War. Wanda takes Anna/Ida off on a trip to the village their family used to live in, in an effort to find out what happened to her parents.
Tropes:
Ask a Stupid Question...: A testy exchange between Wanda and a bartender after Wanda asks about Ida's deceased parents.
Bartender: Jews?
Wanda: No, Eskimos.
Bittersweet Ending: Wanda loses interest in life and commits suicide, and Ida leaves Lis to travel back to the rigid and colorless convent. Importantly, the shot lingers not on her actually returning but on her walking the road between the convent (which no longer satisfies her) and the outside world (which she does not understand). The only thing saving the film from a complete Downer Ending is that she and Wanda did find out what happened to their relatives and were able to give them a proper burial after their violent death, giving Wanda closure about her son.
Bodyguard Betrayal: Ida's parents and cousin were killed by the Skibas, the Christian Poles who were hiding them in the woods. Afterwards, the Skibas took possession of their farm.
But Now I Must Go: After Wanda's death, Ida tries out a life of hedonism—letting her hair down, putting on a party dress and high heels, and sleeping with Lis. She asks him what they'll do next, and she's unimpressed by his response, either sarcastic or enthusiastic, about getting married. The next morning, she gets up, puts her nun's habit back on, and leaves, presumably headed back to the convent.
Commie Land: A dreary, dilapidated, dank and cheerless Poland, still suffering from the aftereffects of the war and the present effects of Soviet occupation. It's cold and rainy, and paint is peeling everywhere.
Cool Aunt: Subverted with Wanda; despite her breezy hedonism she gets less and less enthusiastic about life as the film goes on, and unlike the typical Cool Uncle, she refused to raise the orphaned Ida.
Deliberately Monochrome: Part of the Retraux look (see below). It also works to establish the mood in depressing Communist Poland.
Driven to Suicide: Wanda jumps out a window to her death.
Dull Surprise: The actress who plays Ida, Agata Trzebuchowska, in fact is not an actress. She was spotted in a cafe by one of director Pawlikowski's friends, and recruited to appear in the film. The result is a lot of blank stares, like when Anna/Ida does not so much as blink when her aunt tells her she's Jewish. Although she does quite splendidly throughout the whole film, and a more charitable contribution might be Emotionless Girl.
Finally Found the Body: Wanda knows that Ida's parents and cousin were murdered, but the better part of the film revolves around trying to find where they were buried. Feliks eventually agrees to show them where the bones are (as long as Ida promises to not lay claim to her parents' house), and Ida and Wanda are able to bury them in a Jewish cemetery.
For Doom the Bell Tolls: The heavy church bells that are tolling as another novitiate nun takes her vows, as Ida watches, certainly seem like this.
Great Offscreen War: The main theme is what happened During the War and the years after, and how Poland's traumas still overshadow life in the country in 1961.
Greed: Feliks's murder of Ida's parents and cousin could be explained by fear of discovery and punishment by the Nazis, but his emphasis on the house implies that it was so his family could take the farm, which wasn't unheard of. This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Word of God states that it could go either way.
Hanging Judge / The Judge: Wanda is a judge. She admits to Ida that in the early postwar years, she was "Red Wanda", the Hanging Judge that sent people to their deaths in Stalinist show trials.
Historical Villain Downgrade: Wanda Gruz is based on a real-life communist military prosecutor Helena Brus-Wolińska (born Fajga Mindla) who was known for her ruthlessness and cruelty. Wanda is portrayed as somewhat frightening, but also a This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Jerkass Woobie.
Hollywood Atheist: Wanda, who is a former Communist prosecutor notorious for condemning "Enemies of the People" to their deaths, lives a life of empty hedonism but appears very depressed. After finding out her sister, brother-in-law and son were killed during World War Two, she loses all interest in living, killing herself.
La Résistance: How Wanda survived the war, by being part of the Polish Communist resistance.
Leave the Camera Running /The Oner: The Movie. This film is filled with static shot after static shot, long shots in which the camera never moves, often in total silence. Possibly the most dramatic instance is Wanda's suicide scene. The camera is motionless, trained on the open window. Time passes, then Wanda crosses the frame from left to right. Time passes again. Wanda enters the frame again, and jumps out the window. Some more time passes as the camera continues to point at the window.
Letting Her Hair Down: After Wanda criticizes/mocks Ida for being a virgin and never having impure thoughts, and Lis muses on the effect she has without even knowing it, Ida goes into a restroom and unpins her long red hair. Later, she lets her hair down after leaving the convent.
No Antagonist: Even Feliks, who reveals that he murdered Ida's family (presumably to take their land) comes off as more pathetic than anything and shows Ida to their burial spot after their second conversation.
No Ending: Though the film ends with Ida presumably returning to the convent, the last shot is of her on the road, caught between the two worlds; whether or not she will go through with the vows to a lifestyle that no longer fully interests her is left up to chance, though the implication is that she can't fit in with the outside world.
Really Gets Around: Wanda picks up men a lot. It seems to be a symptom of her depression.
Wanda: I'm a slut, and you're a little saint.
Retraux: Besides being in black and white, the film is shot in the 4:3 Aspect Ratio that was standard for movies up until the 1960s. Director Pawel Pawlikowski, who emigrated from Poland with his mother in 1971 at the age of 14, has stated that this was an attempt to evoke the feel of the Polish cinema of his youth.
Sex Equals Love: Decidedly averted. Sex with Lis leaves Ida unmoved and indifferent and seems to embolden her decision to return to the convent.
Sexy Sax Man: Lis. The girls pick him up hitchhiking. Wanda is obviously attracted to him, pronouncing the saxophone to be a "sensual", "male" instrument. Ida eventually sleeps with him after leaving the convent.
Sexy Soaked Shirt: Occurs when another novitiate is doused in water while still wearing a cotton shift. Ida, now feeling less enthusiastic about being a nun, notices.
Source Music: There's pop music on the radio, and Wanda plays music on her turntable, and Lis's band plays in a few scenes. But there is no score except for a Bach piece that plays over the last scene.
Survivor's Guilt: Wanda's depression comes from the fact that she left her son in her sister's care to join the partisans and they were murdered. It's also part of the reason she didn't adopt Ida: she survived, while her son didn't.
Suspiciously Specific Denial: Wanda gets the better of Feliks Skiba, the Christian Pole who now occupies the farm where Ida's family once lived.
Wanda: Our family used to live in this house.
Feliks: No Jews ever lived here.
Wanda: I didn't say they were Jews.
Tranquil Fury: Ida is extremely calm, even when being shown her parents' bones, but Wanda trying to grab her Bible is one of the few things that truly provokes her.
Would Hurt a Child: Feliks murders Wanda's young son, along with Ida's parents. He tells Ida that she was only able to be saved because she was so young that she could be passed off as non-Jewish; otherwise she would have had the same fate.

Manga / My Wife Is Wagatsuma-san
Hitoshi Aoshima is pretty much a loser - he's ranked near the bottom of the class, he's stuck as a benchwarmer on the school volleyball team, and the only friends he has are antisocial Otaku. While he loves to dream about being with girls, particularly the class beauty Ai Wagatsuma, he has no confidence of any of that coming true.
Then, one night, he dreams about it being ten years later, and in this dream he's not only with Wagatsuma, but he's somehow married to her. However, when things referenced in his dream start happening, Aoshima comes to realize that he isn't just dreaming; he's actually slipping into the future. One where he's somehow landed the most desirable woman he can imagine... now if he can only figure out how he manages to win her over...
Titled Wagatsuma-san wa Ore no Yome in Japan, it's published in Weekly Shonen in Japan and simultaneously published online in English on Crunchyroll here in countries that allow it.
This series contains examples of:
Artifact Title: In-Universe, the DX Brigade, originally formed as a group against Dobashi-san, the school's "prince of refreshment." However, the group quickly abandons their opposition after Aoshima convinces Dobashi to stop putting on airs and be himself. This doesn't end the group or convince them to change their name.
Bad Future: After getting dumped by Wagatsuma, Aooshima time slips into a future where he's become a NEET who's fallen in debt.
Bad Liar: Aoshima's lying to Wagatsuma ends up damaging their relationship and causing a Heroic BSoD.
Book Dumb: Aoshima has the worst grades out of the DX Brigade. As shown by his stats, he's the Master of None to Yasushi's (Matrix 2) Jack-of-All-Stats and Wagatsuma's Master of All.
Brick Joke: In one of Aoshima's time slips, Wagatsuma mentions that her brother disliked him because the first thing he saw him do was flip a table over. Come chapter 46, he does just that after being invited to her house.
But Not Too Foreign: Silvia Shimotsuma - half Dutch, half Japanese.
Butterfly of Doom: Aoshima quickly learns that there can be unintended consequences for his decisions, even if they're not obvious (or, for that matter, even explained). One early one is that he learns that Wagatsuma regretted not being there when her dear dog died in high school. Aoshima convinces her to skip work on the day that said dog died. On one hand, it did mean that Wagatsuma got one last meaningful time with her dog, and she was grateful for that. On the other, this somehow resulted in Aoshima marrying Silvia instead - what's worse, he hadn't even met Silvia in the present yet.
Covert Pervert: Silvia, if the fact that she ends up readily going with Aoshima's fantasies in futures where they're married is any indication.
She walks in on the DX Brigade filming a porno to help one realize his dream. Her reaction? She tells them to continue shooting.
Crash-Into Hello: How Aoshima meets the present day Silvia.
Failure Is the Only Option: There are some fates that Aoshima simply can't change. He can't stop Wagatsuma from going to Africa and dying from malaria. That is, until the final chapter.
Future Badass: Aoshima is apparently destined to become an awesome guy that can land a smoking hot lady regardless of what he does in the present (with his actions really just affecting which one he ends up with).
Future Loser: Several of the people Aoshima knows. He tries to use some of his future knowledge from his time slips to prevent - or at the very least mitigate - how bad it can be.
I Hate Past Me: Played with in that it's the past version of Aoshima who is displeased with his past self. Either future Aoshima doesn't want to disrupt where things are, or he doesn't remember the time slips; regardless, present Aoshima never hears from his future counterpart.
Keigo: At one point, it's illustrated where this can go wrong - Aoshima naturally tends to use it in the present with Wagatsuma because they barely know each other. However, in one of the time slips, she points out how distant and aloof it comes off (not to mention rude, as she took his name, and she's Ai Aoshima in the future). Aoshima still has to catch himself in his time slips, and he still tends to use "Ai-san" for her rather than "Ai-chan" or yobisute (although she doesn't seem to mind).
Love Letter Lunacy: Aoshima composes a 150-page love letter to Wagatsuma to win her affection. However, when he realizes just how off-putting such a huge letter would be, he decides against giving it to her. Unfortunately, he drops it in the schoolyard. Even worse, the principal finds it, thinks it's a poem, and reads it over the school PA. The entire class - including Wagatsuma - die in laughter upon hearing it. Aoshima is only prevented from dying in shame because he didn't attach either his name or Wagatsuma's to it. Wagatsuma's future self figured out he wrote it on their wedding day - Aoshima apparently wrote his vows to her in the same style, and she turns out to have loved it.
Mental Time Travel: An inversion. Aoshima's mind travels forward in time to an older body. Through it, he can gather information and change the past.
Otaku: All of Aoshima's friends, who form the DX Brigade.
Punny Name: Ai Wagatsuma - "ai" also can mean "love," and one way to say "my wife" in archaic Japanese is "waga tsuma" - so she's literally the love of Aoshima's life and his wife (in the future).
Secret Keeper: Aoshima tells Ran, one of his possible wives, about their futures and his power in order to retake his future with Ai. She doesn't believe him initially, but when he mentions the theme of her manga, she comes around. In the fixed future, she names one of her characters after him.
Set Right What Once Went Wrong: Aoshima learns fairly quickly that the future glimpses he gets are not set in stone; he frequently uses glimpses into the future to learn what is about to go wrong and attempt to correct them.
Sixth Ranger: Silvia regularly interacts in with the DX Brigade, owing to their similar interests in otaku culture and the former's lack of friends. Later, Dobashi becomes an official member, despite his few appearances.
Shout-Out: References to Japanese pop culture abound. For instance, Silvia's older brother is a doppelganger of Kenshiro.
Spell My Name with an "S": Sylvia or Silvia? The official translation uses the latter.
Take That!: Otaku culture is regularly ridiculed.
This Loser Is You: The series isn't shy about pointing out just how wrong some of the excesses of Otaku culture can be. In fact, in one future that Aoshima does his best to prevent, his friend Itou gets arrested for acting out too far.
True Companions: Aoshima at one point worries about all of his friends becoming disillusioned and alone, but in multiple variations of his time slips, all of the DX Brigade are still together - one member even conferences in when he can't make their agreed-upon night out drinking.
Tsundere: Silvia, although her dere dere moments are only seen in time slips when Aoshima gets shunted onto paths that end with him marrying her instead of Wagatsuma.
Unstuck in Time: Aoshima, who at first randomly travels through time when he falls unconscious (whether it be by falling asleep or blacking out). It later becomes more frequent, and can happen whenever he's sufficiently relaxed. While he knows what situation has to happen before it'll trigger, he can't control whether it will or not.
Wham Line: "You... are a time-slipper, aren't you?"

YMMV / My Wife Is Wagatsuma-san
Fan-Preferred Couple: Many fans prefer Silvia or Ran as a potential partner for Aoshima. Unfortunately for them, he's dead set on Ai.

Creator / Brian Beacock
Brian Keith Beacock (born March 29, 1966 in Hayward, California) is an actor and a voice actor. He is well known as the voice of Takato Matsuki from Digimon Tamers, Agumon from Digimon: Data Squad and Yumichika from Bleach. And also.... what's his name? Rivalz? Yeah. He also possesses a very nice singing voice, having recorded a tearjerker ballad called "Perfect Gentleman" about a young boy coming out as gay to his folks.
Notable roles by Brian Beacock:
Ail/Seijuro Ginga in the Viz Media dub of Sailor Moon R
Boy George in Duel Masters (season 2)
Byonko in Zatch Bell!
Dengakuman in Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo
Digimon franchise:
Takato Matsuki in Digimon Tamers (his debut role)
Bokomon in Digimon Frontier (who was also the narrator for the last stretch when Melissa Fahn left)
Agumon in Digimon: Data Squad
Dom in Beastars
Hugo, Margaret's little brother, in the PSP version of Shadow of Destiny
Jirou Shima in Nura: Rise of the Yokai Clan (credited as Donn A. Nordean)
Keita Wakui in Devil Survivor 2
Kouji Haruta in Toradora!
Lloyd Irving in Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World, Tales of the World: Radiant Mythology and Soulcalibur Legends
Luthier in Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia
Monokuma in the Danganronpa games (replaced by Greg Ayres in anime appearances)
Monosuke in New Danganronpa V3
Raven, Yuno/Herjuno, and Herbaon in Elsword
Renzou Shima in Blue Exorcist
Rivalz Cardemonde in Code Geass
Ryunosuke Akutagawa in Bungo Stray Dogs
Shigekiyo "Shigechi" Yanguu in Jo Jos Bizarre Adventure Diamond Is Unbreakable
Siam Kid in Blood Lad
Sneech (Suneo Honekawa) in Doraemon
Yamato in Battle B-Daman
Yumichika Ayagesawa in Bleach
Walker Yumasaki in Durarara!!
Mr. White in Tenkai Knights
Light-side Zetsu (pre-time-skip), Sakon, Ukon, and Yashamaru in Naruto

Film / The Decoy Bride
Lara Tyler: You are ruining my life!
Marco Ballani: (gleefully) I've ruined plenty of lives! You're nothing special.
Lara Tyler, an immensely popular movie star, is hounded by the paparazzi due to her upcoming wedding to James Arber, an aspiring writer and author of her favorite book, The Ornithologist's Wife. In an attempt to escape the attention of the press, the two secretly head off to the tiny Scottish island of Hegg, where James' book takes place. Meanwhile, Hegg native Katie laments her luck with men after having just been rejected by her fiancé, and decides to live with her wheelchair-bound mother for the time being. A writer herself, she is drafted into writing a guidebook to Hegg by her old friend Charley.
Lara's agent Steve and his assistant Emma soon arrive on the island, and promptly make over the local ancient castle with an insane amount of money and work in preparation for the wedding, claiming to be part of a "marketing conference" to avoid the attention of the press. However, despite precautions, Lara's most persistent paparazzi photographer is on the scent, and when James bumps into Katie in the local haunted toilet, everything goes exactly not as planned.
With a cast of Kelly MacDonald, David Tennant, and Alice Eve, The Decoy Bride came out in Australia in 2011, not reaching the United Kingdom and United States until March 2012.
This film includes examples of:
Accidental Marriage: James and Katie realize they actually are married when they discuss signing the register - James signed as himself, naturally, and Katie jokingly signed her own name, not thinking about the consequences.
Anguished Declaration O Love: Angus gives one to Katie. It's surprisingly passionate and beautiful, which actually makes it a bit upsetting when she turns him down.
Arson, Murder, and Jaywalking:
Steve: Get me an office, a landline, steeplejacks, welders, £20,000 in cash, 50,000 gallons of water, the construction crew from Bonnie Prince Charlie and a cappuccino.
Belligerent Sexual Tension: James and Katie spend a good portion of time snapping at and insulting each other before the Rescue Romance vibes kick in.
Bread, Eggs, Milk, Squick: Katie's mother wants to "see the world, overdose on daiquiris, and be thrown into a volcano." But you need money for that.
Bride and Switch: Steve and Emma pay Katie to stand in for Lara at the wedding without telling James. He catches on once Katie is forced to speak (in a badly-faked American accent) and demands to know what the hell is going on.
There are also the various fake brides in the opening sequence.
Call-Back: The photographer (in disguise) tells Katie's mother he's photographing rare birds, which gets the sarcastic reply of something like "You'd have more luck photographing hedgehogs." He's seen in the credits selling pictures of Hegg's wildlife, including hedgehogs.
Katie mentions a potential use of a guide to Hegg as a toilet paper alternative, and we later see James' book being utilized as such.
Chekhov's Gun: The haunted toilet.
Cock Fight: Angus tries to have one with James, who refuses, saying he "doesn't fight." Angus tries to tackle him anyway, and James manages to throw him to the ground.
Defeat Means Friendship: Heavily implied with most of the major characters in the epilogue.
Disappeared Dad: Katie's father left years ago. She and her mother keep a picture of him on the wall to throw darts at.
Divorce Is Temporary: Although not the nature of the film per se, James and Katie do get married, do get divorced, and do get back together at the end.
Fake Boobs: Steve sees fit to stuff some padding into Katie's bosom during her makeover.
False Soulmate: Lara for James. And James for her, as well - see Last Minute Hookup.
Goofy Print Underwear: During the changing scene James is shown to be wearing quill-printed boxers, much to the excitement of David Tennant's fans!
Hidden Depths: Lara appears to be your classic Brainless Beauty, and is admittedly a bit of a ditz. Turns out she's also a Master of Disguise and can kick people in the face.
If It's You, It's Okay:
James:You know, they asked 10,000 men to name their ideal partner and 9,800 said Lara. Statistically that includes at least 800 gay men.
I'm Thinking It Over!: Katie's mother's response to Lara's "Your money or your life."
Last Minute Hookup: Between Lara and the Paparazzi photographer during the film's ending credits.
To be fair, he figures out pretty early on in the movie that he loves her and confesses this to an old woman (not realising it's actually Lara in disguise).
Makeover Montage: Lara's make up artists give a reluctant Katie a makeover to prepare her for her time as Lara's stand-in. Katie hates it, but finds herself surprisingly pleased by the results. Steve shivers in horror and adds more veil to cover her up.
Most Writers Are Writers: The two main characters are both writers.
Mr. Smith: When James first meets Katie, he doesn't want her to know who he is, so he stammers that his name is ...J...John...John...son...John... John Johnson.
Noodle Incident: Sometime in the past (implied to be decades before), there was an incident with a whale that brought tourists to the island. Probably also indicates Nothing Exciting Ever Happens Here, since the islanders are still talking about it.
Nothing Exciting Ever Happens Here: Katie's reaction when Charley suggests she write a guidebook to the island.
Katie: A guidebook to here? Don't be mad. "Come see our disused toilet that may or may not be haunted by the ghost of a drowned cow."
Purple Prose: James' book is apparently full of the poorly done type of this.
Katie's guidebook also has a little, but she's actually pretty good at it.
Rescue Romance: James and Katie act considerably warmer toward each other after he saves her from drowning.
Shipper on Deck: The Reverend tells James and Katie they make a good match.
And Katie's mother persuades her to go after James.
Snipe Hunt: To distract Steve and Emma and the various paparazzi from James and Lara, Katie sends both groups off to the haunted toilet.
Stalker with a Crush: The paparazzi photographer reveals that he is obsessed with Lara, and takes all of the photographs of her not for the money per se, but because he loves her. He seems to have his love returned in the ending credits.
Stalking Is Love: Lara seems to believe so.
UST: Very much in evidence and remarkably well done. In the quiet moments of the film, the UST between James and Katie is palpable.
Writer's Block: James is having major issues writing another book - it is suggested this is due to his soul-crushing relationship with Lara.

Funny / The Decoy Bride
The magazine editor to a tent of photographers on being the receiving end of one of Lara's several amazing stunts to avoid the press:
I've just been kicked in the face by the most beautiful woman in the world, who is now walking around outside dressed as my old boarding school matron. I will pay 200 grand for that cover shot. Go and get it.
Most of the scenes in the disused toilet.
The fight between Marco and James.
James running around in Katie's dad's clothes from the 70s.
James trying to play the bagpipes.

Awesome / The Decoy Bride
Lara avoiding the press is particularly amazing; after spending most of her life hiding from them, she's learnt some pretty cool tricks (including disguising herself as an old woman and kicking someone in the face).

Heartwarming / The Decoy Bride
The deaf old couple that James "plays" the bagpipes for. They are still so in love that it touches his heart.
Marco, the photographer, confessing that he has fallen in love with Lara over time and the pair's Last Minute Hookup in the end credits.
Lara helping Katie's mother fulfil her dream of seeing the world before her death.
"A chapter can be a whole book."
Angus' Anguished Declaration of Love to Katie, where he tells her that she is A) beautiful and clever and B) he will love her for the rest of his life, even when she's "old and broken".

Trivia / The Decoy Bride
Actor Allusion: David Tennant changing his name to "John" and then "Johnson" hearkens back to his role on Doctor Who, where his usual alias was John Smith.
He also describes Lara at one point as "brilliant," one of Ten's most common catch phrases.
Not to mention the comment about hermits.
Fake American: Katie tries this in one scene and fails miserably. Her normal accent is close to a coastal Maine accent. Whatever she was trying to do doesn't sound anything like any accent that either Americans or Canadians have.

Theatre / Portal 2: The Unauthorized Musical
Portal 2: The Unauthorized Musical is a fan-made stage show adaptation of the beloved video game of the same name. It is a product of the Vancouver-based musical theater burlesque comedy troupe Geekenders Theatricals. It was performed in January of 2015 at Vancouver's Rio Theatre.
The show retells the story of Valve's game, that of captive test subject Chell and her robot tormenters in Aperture Laboratories. It does this with the help of clever, Portal-ized parodies of show-tunes, giving us numbers such as "Poor Unfortunate Subjects," "Suddenly Wheatley," and "Do You Hear the Turrets Sing." Fairlith Harvey, the show's GLaDOS, added additional dialogue for the show that is very much in the vein of the darkly comic world of Aperture.
The entire thing is available to view on YouTube here. Its soundtrack is available for purchase here. Geekenders' home page can be found here.
In June of 2016, Geekenders launched an Indiegogo campaign for their 2017 update of the show. The 2017 remount, with an updated script, set, and costumes, can be viewed here.
Because the plot sticks closely to the source material, this page will only feature tropes exclusive to the musical, and spoilers for the plot of Portal 2 will be left unmarked. Tropes already present in the video game itself can be found on its page.
Portal 2: The Unauthorized Musical contains examples of:
A Cappella: Three female turrets lament their lot in life with "Here in the Darkness We're Free."
Actor Swap: Patrice Bowler and Erin Mudry play Chell in the same show so the character can leap through one portal and instantly emerge from the other. They also sing a duet together at one point.
Adapted Out: Doug Rattmann only appears in the show via his trademark wall scrawlings. However, Rattmann appears physically and sings in the 2017 reboot.
Adaptational Heroism: The Cores, who were largely passive in the game, take on a more active role in the boss fight against Wheatley. Special mention goes to the Space Core, who physically drags Wheatley through the portal into space.
Adaptational Villainy: Wheatley comes off worse because his My God, What Have I Done? moment from The Stinger is cut. He also seems far more in control of his actions, unlike in the game where it was implied his Face–Heel Turn was due to the mainframe corrupting him. Thus, Wheatly comes off as someone who never had Chell's best interests at heart and was just using her to get what he wants. The Dark Reprise of "Suddenly Wheatley" in the 2017 production further cements this.
Adaptation Species Change: Downplayed. GLaDOS, the spherical cores and the turrets are now humanoid. It's actually very effective.
All Musicals Are Adaptations
Ambiguous Disorder: Space Core is incapable of talking about anything other than space, and his body language is very reminiscent of a five year old. He's only slightly more stable appearing as the human scientist he originally was...but not much.
Ascended Extra: The three corrupted cores who only show up in the boss battle of the game make significant appearances throughout the entire show, even in the Old Aperture scenes.
Also Caroline, who, though important, has only a handful of short lines in the game, and becomes a prominent character in the musical.
Bad Boss: The cores are TERRIFIED of GLaDOS, and during the piece 'Poor Unfortunate Subjects' it's easy to see why; throughout the scene she randomly controls their movements, attacks them, or touches them in ways that make them grimace. Wheatley spends a majority of the song on the floor in the fetal position, with the exception of the end of the song, which he spends unconscious after trying to argue on Chell's behalf.
Wheatley also becomes this, in his abusing the other cores once he takes over Aperture.
The Big Damn Kiss:
There is one between Chell and Rick during the boss battle.
Cave and Caroline also have one.
Brain Uploading: GLaDOS as in the game, but also the Fact, Space, and Adventure Spheres.
Breaking the Fourth Wall: Many instances, including:
Turrets: Do you hear the turrets sing?
You've nothing left from us to fear.
That is until Valve lets us know that the sequel's here!
Wheatley refers to his attack mode as the "boss battle sequence" and complains about having to fall repeatedly on the hard stage in the original version.
Gabe Newell's face appears on the moon, in the original version.
In Chapter One, Wheatley explains to Chell (not realizing who she is) why GLaDOS is currently offline, summarizing the plot of the first game and what happened in between (ie, basically nothing). Then he and Chell both turn and give very large grins to the audience. This is cut in the 2017 production
Wheatley: That's pretty much the whole story, folks. You're all caught up.
In the 2017 production, Wheatley tells Chell that the cores are never supposed to disengage from their management rails "unless it's a very big production number." This refers to Wheatley being able to move around freely in the preceding musical number, "Good Morning Aperture."
Charm Person: GLaDOS's introductory song, "I'm Alive," features the line "Come closer, come closer." Chell does, as if entranced, and Wheatley has to yank her back.note 
Taken Up to Eleven in the 2017 show. During the same number, GLaDOS takes control of Chell and all four of the cores, making them freeze, dance, and bow to her throughout the entire song.
Condescending Compassion: During "Suddenly Wheatley:"
Chell: Limited guidance...
Wheatley: Well now, that's grateful...
Chell: ...to get through this floor!
Creator Cameo: Gabe Newell's face graces the moon during the final battle in the original version.
Curse Cut Short: During "Mr Johnson:"
Scientists: You're a class your own above other classes!
Cave Johnson: Gonna kick some Black Mesa— *cough*
Cute Mute: Chell is considerably less stoic in this version of the story, though still mostly silent.
Dark Reprise: In the 2017 show, of "Suddenly Wheatley" when Wheatley gets the upper hand in the boss battle.
Desperately Looking for a Purpose in Life: Wheatley shows hints of this during "Good Morning Aperture."
Wheatley: I care for this place,
I care for you folk.
My life has a meaning,
I'm not a joke!
And again, very strongly, in "Suddenly Wheatley."
Wheatley: Suddenly Wheatley
Is standing beside you.
You've given me purpose.
I know what I'm for.
Distracted by the Sexy: Happens to Caroline when Cave asks her how he looks for their trip to Black Mesa. She gets lost in thought, realizes it, and awkwardly blurts out, "Science!... sir!"
Cave: You always know what to say.
Duet Bonding: "Suddenly Wheatley". Although the two have been working together the whole show, this song cements their relationship as partners, especially for the heretofore unmotivated Chell. Bonus points for basing the song on "Suddenly Seymour," the romantic duet from Little Shop of Horrors.
Evil Laugh: Graeme Thompson, J.D. Dueckman, and Fairlith Harvey can do particularly creepy ones.
Fainting: The Fact Core does this, of the Girly Man Faint variety, when Chell says "Apple" .
Faux Affably Evil: Wheatley becomes this instead of Affably Evil like he is in the game due to his Adaptational Villainy.
Filk Song
Flashback: The action of Chapter Three takes place before the creation of GLaDOS.
Foreshadowing: Caroline regularly quotes lyrics from "Still Alive."
Hypocritical Heartwarming: Adventure Core repeatedly expresses annoyance towards Space Core and makes fun of him, but when Wheatley does it, he stands up for him.
"I Am Great!" Song: "Mr. Johnson"
"I Am Aperture" for Wheatley, as well. For everyone else participating, it's an "I Am" Song.
"I Am" Song: "I'm Alive"
"I Am Becoming" Song: "Running the Whole Machine"
Incredibly Lame Pun: From the 2017 reboot:
Wheatley: What would you say to a bit of Netflix and Chell?
*Audience boos and groans*
Also from the 2017 reboot, when Wheatley has put GLaDOS into a potato battery and is flaunting his new power:
Wheatley: Did you see that? 'Course you did, you're a potato. You're covered in eyes.
Insult Comic: Wheatley does a bit of this in "Why Can't the Subjects," cracking jokes about Black Mesa and humans in general. The other Cores find him hilarious. Chell does not. It serves as subtle Foreshadowing that Wheatley doesn't have Chell's best interests at heart.
Wheatley: Well, the subjects don't care what they do, as long as they make the biggest mess possible.
Involuntary Dance: GLaDOS forces this upon Chell and the cores in the 2017 version of "I'm Alive."
Ironic Echo: "Say goodbye, Caroline."
Jerk with a Heart of Gold: Rick the Adventure Core mocks the Space Core throughout the show, but comes to Space's defense when Wheatley menaces him after "I Am Aperture."
Kick the Dog: Wheatly has a rather nasty one in the original version. After getting fed up with Space Core, Wheatly convinces Space Core he actually is in space, even acting it out with him, only for Wheatly cruelly bring him back to reality and make sure he understands that he is never going to space. It seems the creators agreed this was too cruel, and the moment is all but removed in the 2017 version, with only the final part being kept.
Ladykiller in Love: It's implied that Rick was this for Caroline when he was human. He rather blatantly hits on her... and starts kicking himself for screwing it up and talking about wanting to marry her as soon as she's out of earshot.
Leaning on the Fourth Wall: In the 2017 remount when Wheatley is trying to hack the code to abort GLaDOS's re-activation, he runs over to the band and uses the electronic keyboard. He even plays the notes that match his password attempts.
Longing Look: Cave throws some at Caroline, and vice-versa.
Manchild: The Space Core.
Metaphorgotten: Cave Johnson tells his underlings a parable about a scorpion and a frog that he quickly forgets the purpose of.
Cave: I came out of the metaphor somewhere back there, but the point still stands.
Montage: Chell's trek through GLaDOS's testing track is compiled into one song, "Under Attack."
Mood Whiplash: The audience is only slightly less surprised than Caroline, but no less saddened, when Cave's ballad to her becomes, well, this:
Cave: You know, Caroline, I always said that if I died before they can pour me into a computer, I wanted you to run this place.
Caroline: That's very flattering, sir, but I don't think—
Cave: And I knew you'd argue. You're modest like that. But we can make you.
Caroline: ... What?
The Musical
Murder the Hypotenuse: Almost immediately after the scene showing Rick flirting with Caroline, Cave Johnson volunteers Rick for the most lethal test the facility is testing at the moment: the Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System. Apparently Rick survived the process to become the Adventure Core, but it certainly wasn't for a lack of trying by Johnson.
Nerd: The Fact Core is shown to be this. Wheatley even calls him this during the boss fight sequence.
Non Sequitur: Most of the Fact Core's lines.
Fact Core: Conquistadors are still here!
Only Sane Man: Adventure Core acts as this among the cores, though the other two don't provide much competition.
Oral Fixation: The Space Core occasionally sucks his thumb.
Patter Song: Cave Johnson's verson of "Trouble," in which he tries to sell the portal gun to some Black Mesa scientists fending off headcrab zombies.
People Puppets: GLaDOS takes over the movements of Chell and the cores in the choreography of "I'm Alive." Wheatley similarly makes the turrets and cores dance for him once he takes over Aperture.
Pep-Talk Song: "A Quick Pair of Portals," in which Chell prepares to go take down "that psycho core who's taken over."
Also the purpose of Wheatley's verse in "Under Attack."
Plucky Girl: Chell's Determinator personality is adapted into this. Even after being betrayed and punched down an elevator shaft by Wheatley, she finds the motivation to sing an optimistic Mary Poppins-inspired song about her skill with a portal gun on her way to defeat him, which becomes a Triumphant Reprise during the final battle.
Poor, Predictable Rock: Wheatley, to the point where he has his own version of Rock Paper Scissors called... Rock Rock Rock. When Rick uses paper, Wheatley is taken completely by surprise.
Post-Kiss Catatonia: Wheatley falls to the floor after Chell kisses him on the cheek.
Pre-Asskicking One-Liner: Parodied with the Fact Core's line, spoken during the boss fight sequence.
Fact Core: "Hillary Clinton became a politician after seeing The Brave Little Toaster!"
Chell gets one to finish off the boss battle of the 2017 show.
Chell: Just a quick pair of portals...
Promoted to Love Interest: While the exact nature of their relationship is pretty ambiguous in the game, in the musical there is no room for doubt that Cave Johnson and Caroline have a thing going on.
Punctuated! For! Emphasis!: "You are NEVER. GOING. TO SPACE."
Running Gag: Wheatley falls down a lot. Justified since he doesn't have much experience with walking, having relied on his management rail for most of his life. Downplayed in the 2017 production, in which it only happens a couple of times at the beginning and stops after GLaDOS appears.
Setting Introduction Song: "Good Morning Aperture"
Shout-Out:
The Fact Core's section of "Mr. Johnson" pays tribute to Valve.
Fact Core: We're not crackpots, as some make us seem.
We've got this country's best research team!
But the ones in the hats work on something called Steam.
What it's for
We're not sure
But we're living the dream!
Multiple shout-outs to Doctor Who, mostly by Wheatley.
Wheatley compares his partnership with Chell to be "like Rose and the Doctor."
In both versions, Wheatley shouts "I don't want to go!" before being sucked through the portal into space.
In the 2017 version, Wheatley bears a strong resemblance to the Tenth Doctor.
Also in that version, he says "bananas are good," echoing both the Ninth and Tenth Doctors.
Rick and Caroline's exchange, "How many times do I have to tell you to call me Rick?" "As always, at least one more time" is lifted nearly word-for-word from Elizabeth and Will's dialogue in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl.
Sickly Neurotic Geek: The Fact Core was this back when he was human.
The Silent Bob: Chell is not mute in this adaptation, but the only time her voice is heard is in songs. The rest of the time, she communicates with facial expressions, body language and, of course, jumping.
Silent Snarker: The Space Core of all people behaves like this at times.
Solo Duet: The two performers of Chell have "A Quick Pair of Portals," jumping in and out of said portals.
Song Parody: Each song, with the exception of "Want You Gone".
Ship Sinking: Wheatley's betrayal ends his romance with Chell real fast, with his Adaptational Villainy calling into question if it was even real in the first place. The Dark Reprise of Suddenly Wheatley from the 2017 version further cements this.
Ship Tease:
Chell and Wheatley sing a parody of Suddenly Seymour, ending with Wheatley falling over in shock after Chell kisses him on the cheek. Wheatley's betrayal ensures it doesn't last.
The Fact Core also swoons over GLaDOS, while Rick flirts with Caroline.
Standard Female Grab Area: Wheatley uses the wrist variation on Chell during "Running the Whole Machine."
Suddenly Speaking:
Played for Laughs, when Chell, much to the surprise of the cores, speaks in a bizarre southern drawl.
Chell: "Ah buh-heg yer pardon!" note 
It's downplayed after that, as Chell remains silent. She doe outside of her solo number.
Take That!: The 2017 update launches one directly at President Trump.
Wheatley: Most of your facts are spurious—
Fact Core: They are ALTERNATIVE.
(the audience cheers and claps for a solid 30 seconds)
Title: The Adaptation
Villain Love Song: Cave's "If You Could See You" to Caroline... which ends with her being dragged away screaming to have her consciousness poured into a computer.
Villain Song: One for each villain. GLaDOS sings "Poor Unfortunate Subjects," gloating over Chell's fate after capturing her, and Wheatley has "Running the Whole Machine," in which he does the same thing to GLaDOS.
Vitriolic Best Buds: The cores, sans Wheatley.
Was Once a Man: The Fact, Space, and Adventure cores were once Aperture scientists who worked alongside Cave Johnson. In the 2017 show, as was Wheatley.
Also, as per the game, GLaDOS was once Cave Johnson's human assistant Caroline.
Welcoming Song: "Good Morning Aperture"
Whole Episode Flashback: Chapter Three: The Reunion, set in the days of when humans ran the facility.
You Are Fat: GLaDOS to Chell, as per usual, but the Fact Core gets in on the action too when he tells Rick "You could stand to lose a few pounds."

YMMV / Portal 2: The Unauthorized Musical
Base-Breaking Character: The Core trio is either funny or obnoxious. Especially the Space Core.
Big-Lipped Alligator Moment:
Every time Chell starts singing, because she doesn't even talk in any other scene.
"Here in the Darkness We're Free", while a lovely song that gives insight into how the Turrets think, ultimatly doesn't move the plot along and is never mentioned again.
Cave Johnson visiting Black Mesa during the events of the resonance cascade also doesnt add much to the plot besides showing off more of Cave's personality. It's just there to give out the inevitable Half-Life reference. That, and to provide the perfect opportunity to do a Song Parody of Ya Got Trouble.
Broken Base: Which version is superior, the original production or the 2017 one?
Ensemble Dark Horse: The Aperture staff are beloved, since the crew is actually allowed to be creative with their narrative. Caroline is especially loved, since they actually treated her like a character and the game didn't do much with her.
Evil Is Sexy: GLaDOS, who is humanized into a Big Beautiful Woman.
Nightmare Fuel: Caroline's fate, which is based on a deleted scene.
Strangled by the Red String: The little duet that Chell and Wheatley have is clearly romantic. In the game, the characters don't express any attraction towards each other in the game, Even in the musical, there isn't much buildup to this and one could say it's just pandering, as they are a Fan-Preferred Couple. However, considering Wheatly's Adaptational Villainy combined with the Dark Reprise of "Suddenly Wheatley" in the 2017 version, the fact the the relationship comes off as forced may have been the point.

Video Game / Pier Solar and the Great Architects
Pier Solar and the Great Architects is an Eastern RPG, chiefly notable for being the only game so far that was developed in the 21st century for Sega Genesis (a few games were published on it after 2000, like the Beggar Prince, Legend Of Wukong and Star Odyssey, but all of them started development in the 1990s). It was originally planned to be released in 2008 for the Mega Drive's 20th anniversary, but development issues postponed its release to December 2010.
Afterwards, it had received an HD remake, which was ported to PS3, PS4, Wii U, Xbox One and PC through Steam in 2014. A Sega Dreamcast version was released as well.
This game provides examples of:
Adam Smith Hates Your Guts: Played straight with better weapons, armors, accessories and medicines. A stay at the inn is always 10 gold coins though.
Behind the Black: It's where chests, switches, or platforms are hidden.
Bigger on the Inside: Typical for an Eastern RPG.
Blackout Basement: The maze under Ludon city.
"Blind Idiot" Translation: Roberto Bechtlufft of Gagá Games fame translated most of the game to portuguese, but had to leave the project and someone else (who isn't credited) finished the job. To his surprise, a few awkward portuguese spelling errors appeared and he had to explain what happened.
Bonus Boss: Defeating Ryan the lion in Assac's arena is hard and optional but gets you some always-useful cash and more importantly, an item that opens late-game access to a unique piece of equipment.
Bottomless Magazines: Played straight with Alina's bow/crossbow/speargun that never runs out of arrows/quarrels/spears. Averted with Edessot's thrown weapons that are in limited supply, take room in your limited inventory, and can (usually) only be found in limited chests, not bought.
Bounty Hunter: You meet one early in the game. Zellini also disguises as one at some point in the game.
Critical Existence Failure: Whether at full health or nearly dead, the characters perform just as good. However, their combat portrait and sprite will reflect their condition.
Cross-Popping Veins: Alina gets these sometimes.
Combat Medic: Alina (see Staff Chick too). In Kruller's case, this trope is both played straight (he can only heal DURING combat) and subverted (he can't heal without gathering first, and his non-magic attacks are rather weak). He's more of a mage with some healing abilities.
Competence Zone: Averted. While Hoston, Alina and Edessot are teens and often considered as children, they are accompanied by adults who are more able due to their higher starting level only. It evens out during play.
Cool Big Sis: Alina to Edessot.
Distress Ball: Subverted. Early in game, Alina leaves to go forth on her own, but Hoston and Edessot quickly catch her up, and she did not need to be rescued either.
Drop the Hammer: Rudy's weapons are hammers and maces. One of his special attacks involve a Hyperspace Mallet.
Dub Name Change: The game has a reference to Phantasy Star's Gamer Miki in the form of a character named Mikomi. The portuguese translation names her Miki, because "Mikomi" sounds like the portuguese words for This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab."eat me".
Dying Race: The Goaman (Goamen ?).
Elemental Powers: Enemies and characters alike can have elemental (fire, water, earth and air) attacks, magics and/or resistances. Typically, Hoston's and Rudy's attacks are earth-based, Alina's water-based, Edessot's and Zellini's fire-based, and Kruller's air-based. Equipping accessories can give elemental resistance, while only enemies can have elemental weaknesses.
Fantasy Counterpart Culture: The city of Oasis.
Hammerspace (Game type) : This is where your inventory is stored, although you're limited in number of DIFFERENT items you can have. Edessot seems to have his own hammerspace (basic type) as well to store his recon robot Lossa.
Gadgeteer Genius / Science Hero : Edessot, who lives in a workshop, assembles and disassembles robots, can repair trains, and fights with tools.
Global Currency: Gold seems to be that : merchants accept it everywhere, enemies carry gold coins, while chests can contain gold coins, block, bars... or "metal coins" (no amount stated), worth... ONE gold coin!
Heroic BSoD: Hoston suffers one of these shortly after Rudy, his father, dies in front of him after taking a fatal attack from Kloneo. It doesn't last very long, before Alina and Edessot get him back on his feet.
Hopeless Boss Fight: After you defeat his soldiers, Ironhart jumps into the fight, and then you're doomed to lose. Happens at least twice in the game...
Hub City: Verahansa may be the biggest city of all 16-bit RPGs.
Improbable Weapon User: Edessot's weapons are tools (ranging from lighters to chisels to saws...), while Kruller's attack animation pictures him fighting with... juggling balls!
Identical Grandson: Subverted. Some people notice that Hoston looks like his father Rudy, but no one ever mistakes them.
Inexplicable Treasure Chests: Of course, there are treasure chests hidden in forests, jungles, mountains, etc. And their content will never be spoiled or rotten either, however long they've be stored there...
Inn Security: Subverted. Some stays in inns are mandatory to advance the plot, but that does not mean you won't get your usual rest either. Not sure if they are always free, though. See also Trauma Inn below.
Kleptomaniac Hero: And how! A Timpo citizen even blames you for this, but without consequence.
Level Grinding: Leveling up is slow and hard at first, but it gets better.
Life Drain: Kruller has such a spell that targets all enemies.
Limit Break: During battles, each character has a 5-level Gather gauge, which can be filled up by using a "Gather"/"Send Gather" action or an item. Gather levels add a multiplier to the character's attacks and spells (up to x4) and allow him/her to use more powerful attacks and spells. Gather does not decrease after using a power, but when hit by some heavy attacks, sending it to another character, or after a round or two if it was at max level.
Limited Wardrobe: Played straight, though Alina tears a part of her jacket at some point. That doesn't show anywhere.
Mini-Game: There are some in the game. Played with when you're getting ready to help a farmer harvest watermelons, but eventually... not.
Money Spider: Most enemies are animals, yet you still earn gold when you defeat them. Subverted with Ryan the lion, since it's an arena bet.
Multiple Endings: Towards the end, Hoston is given a choice between using the Piers Solar to rewrite history to avert all the horrible events of the game, at the cost of his own existence, or to continue to see his journey to the very end.
Names to Run Away from Really Fast: Ironhart does not sound like a very nice, caring person indeed.
This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.No Export for You: Zigzagged - the planned Japanese version was eventually not released because of the lack of Japanese translators to proof-read it, however the game exists in English, French, German, Spanish and Portuguese, runs on all Japanese, American and European consoles, and can be bought from anywhere in the world.
Palette Swap: For some enemies. They keep the same name though, only their stats change.
Pamphlet Shelf: Book shelves are neither overly common nor contain lengthy texts, but they may be critical to the plot's advancement. Some spell books can be bought in stores, read, then sold.
Parental Abandonment: Averted in Hoston's case: finding a cure to his father Rudy's illness despite his mother's advice is what starts the whole plot, Not to mention that Rudy will later join the party... and more.
Permanently Missable Content: Some items can't be gotten past a certain point if you're not careful enough, as several places can only be visited once and/or before a certain point in the plot. Made worse by the fact that some chests can only be opened by backtracking to them much later in the game once you have the necessary skill/key to open them... and they contain some of the most important treasures.
Random Encounters: Yup. Exceptions (fights YOU can decide to start) are very rare.
Shout-Out: Lots:
Rudy's Hector Hammer attack is a reference to Sir Hector, the Mascot of the heavy metal band Hammerfall.
Kruller's Wind of Change spell is a reference to Scorpions.
Zellini's Bright Mind spell is learnt by reading Slade's Guide, which is a reference to Slade, the thief who started the plot in Shining Force II.
One familiar merchant says “Later, ace!” when the party leaves, referencing VideoGame.Phantasy Star II. The portuguese version of the line uses what Tectoy did when they translated that game.
You can find ingame Mega Drive/Genesis cartridges of Alien Soldier and Phantasy Star IV.
At some point in the game, if you play with the cartridge inserted into a Sega 32X, someone will give you Sonic's Shoes. Doubles as an Easter Egg.
Side Quest: There are some of them in the game, with varying degree of complexity. Examples include delivering a letter, grabbing bunnies in Reja forest, collecting some stuff for a bounty hunter, fighting a lion for a prize in an arena, and navigating a maze in Ludon city.
Simple Staff: Mohu's weapon is a staff. Kruller's weapons are staves too, although his fighting animation shows him using juggling balls.
Steampunk: Steam boats, trains, robots, and 19th-century-style factories in a swords and bows world.
Trauma Inn: Usually one per village. Some other places also allow you to rest, either one time or at will (e.g. the Goaman's hut, a given spot while climbing up Meho moutains, or the Ice Castle), while some others do NOT have any while you could really use one (Hunting Lodge anyone?). Sleeping at or visiting the inn is sometimes needed to advance into the plot.
Universal Driver's License: Averted. Only Edessot barely knows how to drive the train he just repaired... and even fails the first time he tries!
Urban Segregation: The Timpo district of Verahansa is poor, while another district gathers the noble folk.
We Buy Anything: Except plot-critical quest items, of course. Price may change according to the buyer, though.
Welcome to Corneria: Downplayed. The programmers usually made the effort that NPCs get two or three different things to say before starting again. What they have to say may even be real-life information or hint.
We Sell Everything: Subverted. Smaller hamlets may have only one or few shops, but bigger cities have several shops or market merchants that may sell the same goods at different prices. Shops are usually specialised in weapons, armor, or accessories/potions/miscellaneous stuff.
Whip It Good: Zellini's weapons are whips.

YMMV / Pier Solar and the Great Architects
Dancing Bear: It's a Sega Genesis game coming out a decade after the system's been officially ended. Everyone who still had their Genesis (or a modern update of the same) was likely to buy it for that alone.

Murder by Inaction
aka: Let Them Die
"I watched Jane die. I was there, and I watched her die. I watched her overdose and choke to death. I could have saved her, but I didn't."
— Walter White, Breaking Bad
A convenient way to deal with someone you want dead is to simply not save their life when a situation arises in which their death is inevitable.
Killing is messy. You have to deal with those pesky murder charges, or go to the effort of engineering a convenient "accident" or "suicide" to avert suspicion, or clean up the crime scene to hide your involvement. But as fate would have it, if your foe winds up in a fatal position and you are their only means of survival, all you have to do to kill them... is nothing at all.
In Real Life, this concept is called the duty to rescue. According to The Other Wiki, the failure to offer help for those in need isn't usually considered a crime (because of the can of worms that opens when you punish someone for "not doing anything"), but there are countries where people are obligated by the law to come to the aid of those in life peril. In France for example, abandoning a helpless person can earn you a prison sentence of up to five years. On the other hand, you cannot be prosecuted for a bad first aid, precisely for the reason to prompt people to help those in need no matter what, unless it would endanger their own lives as well. Of course, an exception is made for on-duty emergency workers, law enforcement and military personnel, where failure to act is to violate your duty. It can also be your duty because of your relationship to the person: parents have a duty to rescue their minor children. Failing to act is also generally punishable if you're in some way responsible for creating the dangerous situation in the first place.
Compare Do with Him as You Will, Make It Look Like an Accident, Never Suicide, and Throw 'Em to the Wolves. Contrast Accidental Murder and Save the Villain. If the victim is murdered actively by a character and another character does not intervene, it's a case of Accomplice by Inaction or Betrayal by Inaction depending on the case. Contrast/Compare Failure-to-Save Murder where someone is held responsible for a death because they tried and failed to prevent it, and Bystander Syndrome when people in general don't help the victim. Is often the Face–Heel Turn for a character. Most of the time it is not a Moral Event Horizon however unless the perpetrator contributes actively enough into this to be considered indirectly culpable. This is often a favored tactic of the Technical Pacifist.
As a Death Trope, all spoilers will be unmarked ahead. Beware.
Anime and Manga 
7 Seeds
During the Final Test, a group of girls takes Ayu, whom they have been bullying, along with them and uses her as their cook. They decide they want to eat something with chopsticks and make them out of a tree's branches, while Ayu makes her chopsticks out of a different tree's branches. While eating, the girls end up dying from poison and blame Ayu for this, who calmly tells them that they were the ones that made their chopsticks from a poisonous tree-type.
When Team Summer A awakens in the future and realizes that Usami is their chosen guide, they enact their revenge on him and all, except for Ban, shoot him non-fatally. Usami tells Ban to use his medical knowledge and save him. Ban states that his medical skills are lacking and Usami is left to die. It's Played for Drama, though, as Ban is shown to already have been distraught over not being able to save more people during the Final Test and might not have meant malicious intent with leaving Usami.
Dragon Ball Z: During the Frieza Saga, after Vegeta takes a mortal wound from Krillin as part of a plan to have Dende heal him and receive a Zenkai boost, Dende initially refuses to do so and is fully prepared to let Vegeta die, since Vegeta was just as evil as Frieza and had killed numerous Namekians himself. Ultimately subverted when Gohan, Krillin, and Piccolo persuade him to do so, since they need Vegeta to stand a chance against Frieza.
In Fairy Tail, Loke/Leo ends up being accused of this crime. He and Aries were Celestial Spirits in the service of the cruel Karen Lilica, and to save Aries from Karen's wrath, he switched places with Aries, and gave Karen an ultimatum- he'd remain in the human world and refuse to help Karen until she canceled both their contracts. Karen was initially confident that since Leo couldn't remain in the real world forever, he'd soon be forced to give up, but he lasted longer than she expected. In the end, Karen became desperate, since without her spirits, she couldn't work as a mage, and she eventually went on a job anyway and got herself killed. The Celestial Spirit King blamed Loke for his mistress's death and banished him until Lucy successfully pleaded his case, saying that he'd only been protecting his friend Aries.
An episode of Hell Girl shows Leon Yamada. He is a special example of a Barbaric Bully because he beats weaker classmates and robs them. He also attacks and injures adults. Besides, he has joined a criminal gang, and tries to run over a puppy. When he makes an accident with his scooter, the three teenagers who are his most frequent victims see it. They go to him, but leave him lying without helping him, so that he will die as a result of the traffic accident.
Three evil adventurers in Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon? try to do with Liliruca. They belong to the same familia, and have mistreated the young girl for years. Eventually, they leave her as bait for monster ants while fleeing themselves. But Bell can save her. And shortly thereafter, these three adventurers are killed by a Minotaur.
At the very end of Now and Then, Here and There, Abelia watches while King Hamdo's palace is flooded and he drowns. In this case it's half this trope half The Dog Bites Back, since Hamdo certainly had it coming, but Abelia's face makes it clear she's still rather conflicted over it.
In Yuureitou, this turns out to be the real way Tetsuo's adoptive mother died: she was tied to the clock tower by a killer after the treasure within, but since she'd abused Tetsuo for his transgender identity as a child (including leaving him to die in the trap-filled labyrinth beneath the tower until he pretended to cry 'like a real girl'), he simply stood and watched. Tetsuo himself makes no attempt to claim it wasn't murder, telling the cops he'd killed her and using it as a reason that Amano shouldn't be his friend.
What primarily leads to Erya Uzruth's death in Overlord, even if Hamsuke was the one who dealt the death blow. Did he really expect his elf maidens to use their magical powers to save him when he was so clearly outmatched?
The novel Itachi Shinden: Book of Dark Night of Naruto reveals that this was how Shisui Uchiha gained the Mangekyou Sharingan. He was on a mission with a close friend, who fell behind fighting the enemy forces. Shisui was jealous of said friend's talents and intentionally decided not to help him, resulting in his death.The guilt of realizing what he'd done was what awakened the Mangekyou in him.
Discussed heavily towards the end of Trigun as part of its deconstruction of Thou Shalt Not Kill. Legato points out to Vash that by his unflinching refusal to kill anyone, no matter how evil or dangerous, he is in fact responsible for the deaths they caused. He ultimately makes his point in an inversion of this trope, forcing Vash to actively kill him in order to save someone else.
    Comic Books 
Batman: In issue #633, Robin (Stephanie Brown) dies due to torture and Batman later discovers that Dr. Leslie Thompkins deliberately withheld treatment that could've saved her life but chose not to in order to teach the kids of Gotham a lesson about superheroing. After massive backlash this was retconned into Thompkins making Batman think that Stephanie died when she was actually smuggled out of the country. (Then it was retconned even further into Batman and a few other adults in Stephanie's life being aware too, and everyone dancing around the Open Secret for complex psychological and political reasons...)
The Batman story Knightfall has Jean-Paul Valley/Azrael do this while assuming Batman's identity. When the villain Abattoir is left dangling above a vat of molten steel, Jean-Paul is torn between fulfilling his duty as an avenging knight and killing him, or rejecting it and saving his life. Instead, he chooses neither and leaves Abattoir to eventually fall to his death — which also dooms the hostage he had hidden away. After Bruce recovers and learns about this, he realizes he can't trust Valley with the Batman identity anymore.
Marshal Law: At the climax of the "Kingdom of the Blind" storyarc, Law is very much capable of helping the Private Eye up rather than let him fall to his death. Watching from across the room, Law jokingly insists he "can't quite reach" as the Private Eye struggles and eventually falls.
Superman: In Superman (Volume 1) #338: Let My People Grow!, Brainiac gets accidentally hit by his size-changing ray and is shrinking rapidly and uncontrollably. He begs Supergirl to save him, but she refuses to◊: her enlarging ray has only two shots left, which she plans to use on her cousin and the Bottle City of Kandor, and she is NOT wasting energy on him. Even Superman pleads with her, but Kara doesn't cave in◊, and lets Brainiac disappear. Reviewed here.
In Catwoman, Catwoman once deliberately refused to rescue Black Mask from falling to his death from a penthouse. Since Black Mask had spent the last several issues doing unbelievably horrible things to her friends and relatives and had just tried to torture her to death, this could probably be forgiven. Unfortunately it didn't work.
Green Lantern: Sodam Yat hated the xenophobia of his homeworld Daxam. It reached a peak in his childhood when he befriended an alien named Tessog that had crashlanded on Daxam. Sodam's parents brainwashed Sodam and murdered Tessog. Sodam realized the truth after seeing his friend's stuffed corpse in a museum. He repaired his friend's ship vowing to leave the planet forever when the Green Lantern ring appeared and gave him another out. Years later, when the Sinestro Corps attacked Daxam, Sodam seriously considered leaving the planet to its fate.
    Comic Strips 
For Better or for Worse: In Michael's book Stone Season, the heroine suffers constant abuse and suffering at the hands of her cruel, controlling husband. In the climax, she goes out to search for him after he spends too long out on a ride, and finds him lying in the snow, injured. She simply turns around and heads home without him, leaving him to die.
    Fan Works 
In Dear Diary, Prima suggests that the team leaves Blair to die when he is trapped under a pillar in the Desert Resort. Gnash calls her out, saying it's no different than murder, while most of the other team members disagree with her decision for various other reasons.
Hellsister Trilogy: In the chapter 31 of "The Apokolips Agenda", Superman and Supergirl coerce Lex Luthor and Dr. Sivana into cooperating with the heroes by threatening to go away and let Darkseid kill both villains. When Sivana claims that heroes always Save the Villain, Supergirl quietly says that she's killed before and will again.
Defied in Hope for the Heartless when Avalina has the chance to escape the wounded and unconscious Horned King, but she decides against it because if she leaves him to die, she'll be just like him.
In crossover fanfiction In Brightest Day, Diamond Tiara comes up with a plan to kill off her classmates by separating them from the group and having the Black Lanterns pick them off one by one, essentially keeping their hooves clean of any actual murder.
Kara of Rokyn: A variant in that it happens after the villain has passed away. After Lex Luthor has just died, Supergirl recalls she managed to bring him Back from the Dead once. For a brief second she considers to attempt to revive him... and then she decides against it, because Luthor squandered his second chance with his many attempts on her loved ones' lives.
There were only so many times mercy could be shown.
Sometimes, it was a greater mercy to withhold it.
In a sidestory of Pokémon Reset Bloodlines, when a seven-year-old Misty accidentally falls into the pool and ends up in danger of drowning, she fears that even if her mother hears her cries for help, she'll deliberately ignore them and call her death "a terrible accident". Fortunately, her bloodliner powers kick in allowing her to breathe in the water, and she manages to get out by herself.
In Son of the Desert Edward debates with himself on letting Scar kill Roy since Edward knows that he wouldn't be blamed for it considering that Scar is a notorious Serial Killer and Edward himself barely escaped being killed. He hates Roy for killing his maternal Ishvalan relatives and had fantasized about killing him. In the end, he can't bring himself to do it and saves Roy's life.
In Buffy the Vampire Slayer/Supergirl story The Vampire of Steel, Buffy takes over Kara's body in order to slay Zol-Am. Kara doesn't like but she doesn't attempt to take control back as Buffy kills the Kryptonian vampire off.
In Peggy Sue fanfiction Warp, Victoria Dallon is convinced that in the original timeline Amy let her boyfriend die out of jealousy because she stalled at healing Dean until it was too late to save his life.
"I can't read minds," he said. "But... yeah. There's a lot going on there. I kind of talked to her about it on Thursday, but she pushed me away. I'm not her favorite person, but she needs help."
She let you die, I thought. There was time. She could have saved you.
In Winter Storm, Sombra correctly guessed the new Changeling Queen would betray him eventually, so he simply allows her to be overpowered during her Beam-O-War with Luna.
    Films — Animation 
In Corpse Bride, Done more or less by most of the characters both and living and dead to Lord Barkis who should know better than drink from a glass of wine the dead brought just because he couldn't resist some Evil Gloating and wanted to have the last word. Nobody could stomach him getting away with his crimes and thus nobody felt the least bit sorry when he got his.
The Emperor's New Groove: As Kuzco and Pacha cross a rickety old bridge on their way to the palace, Pacha falls through and ends up tangled up in the ropes. Rather than help him up, Kuzco leaves him there, saying that it's better than imprisoning him in a dungeon as per his original plan. This backfires immediately when he too falls, forcing the two of them to work together to save themselves.
Frozen: Attempted by Prince Hans when he first chooses to withhold a potentially life-saving Almost Kiss from Anna, since an act of true love would save her from freezing to death from Elsa's magic (although said act is eventually done by Anna, not for Anna) then leaving her to succumb to her frozen heart. You could argue that he also sped up the process by extinguishing flames, but ultimately, it was a choice not to save, rather than to kill. His kiss probably wouldn't have saved her any ways since he didn't love her, but it's clear that the way he almost does it and then turns away is mostly to rub it in.
Toy Story 3: Rather than save the toys from being roasted by the incinerator by pressing the emergency stop button to shut off the conveyor belt, Lotso instead decides to abandon the toys even after they risked their lives to save him.
In The Lion King, it seems like this is how Mufasa is going to die: after luring Simba into a ravine that the hyenas are going to drive a herd of stampeding wildebeest through, it looks as though all Scar will need to do is sit there and gloat after Mufasa gets Simba to safety but can't save himself without Scar's assistance - but Scar can't resist the opportunity to Kick the Dog and throws Mufasa off the cliff anyway.
    Films — Live-Action 
Batman Begins: Batman uses this as a loophole around his "no killing" rule to dispose of Ra's al Ghul, who's caught on an about-to-crash train. The waters are muddied even further by the fact that he had James Gordon ride the Tumbler (a tank-esque Batmobile) and take out the bridge supports ahead of the train to cause said crash, and in that all of this was ultimately caused by Ra's, including Bruce becoming Batman in the first place since he all but orchestrated the Wayne murders in this version of the story.
Batman: I won't kill you... but I don't have to save you.
The Fifth Element: Subverted. Immediately after Zorg gives Cornelius a diatribe about survival of the fittest and the necessity of destruction, he starts choking on a fruit. Cornelius takes some time to point out the irony, but ultimately thumps him on the back to save him.
Gladiator: After Maximus disarms Commodus in the arena, Commodus immediately starts demanding one of the surrounding Praetorian Guard to give him a sword. If he hadn't recently and publicly dishonored his own royal guards, they might have.
Johnny Belinda, although this example might be just straight-up murder. Locky's fight with Black by the edge of the cliff ends with Black slipping off the cliff, scrambling for a foothold. Locky stands and watches as Black slips off the cliff and falls to his death.
Ju Dou: Jianshan's deeply disturbing death. It is clear that Tianbai, then a child of elementary school age, didn't mean to knock Jianshan's wheelchair into the red dye vat. But as Jianshan flails around, his dead legs dragging him down, Tianbai watches. And smiles. And laughs.
Killer Toon: Mi-suk's mother suffers from a horrible facial disfigurement (cause unspecified) that includes among other things a missing eye, ghastly scarring, and holes in her cheek. Mi-suk, sick and tired of being a social outcast because of her mother, writes that she wishes her mother were dead. Mom finds her daughter's journal and hangs herself—and seconds after she kicks away the chair, Mi-suk walks in and finds her mother strangling to death on the rope. Instead of doing anything to help her mother, Mi-suk steps back and watches her die.
My Cousin Rachel:
Rachel says she's going to be walking along a route that Phillip knows to be dangerously unsafe, because the carpenter told him the bridge has not been finished yet. He doesn't say anything. She falls to her death.
In the remake, Phillip suggests that Rachel go riding along a route where he himself nearly fell to his death earlier in the film. Sure enough...
The protagonist of A Place in the Sun refrains from saving the girl he made pregnant when she is drowning because her death would free him up to be with his true love.
During the Normandy assault on Saving Private Ryan, a soldier gets behind the German bunker and sets it ablaze with his flamethrower. One of the soldiers on the beach sees the Germans jumping off the side of the bunker on fire and orders the others not to shoot, but "let them burn".
Star Trek VI: Kirk is infuriated to find he has been nominated to extend "the first olive branch" of peace to the Klingons, who can no longer afford to maintain hostilities with the Federation. Kirk has hated the Klingons outright ever since they killed his son and when Spock attempts to persuade him that it's the right thing to do he replies "Let them die."
Reversal of Fortune: One of the possible solutions to the mystery of what happened to Sunny is that her husband failed to give her aid after an attempted suicide.
Tormented (1960): When Vi is hanging from the broken railing of the lighthouse, begging Tom Stewart to save her, he starts to move in, and then decides to just stand idly by and watch her fall to her death. He makes a half-hearted attempt to move in once she's already plummeting.
Tristana: When Don Lope is having a heart attack, Tristana pretends to call the doctor but never actually lifts the receiver. Then she kind of moves onto Murder By Action when she opens Don Lope's window to the bitter winter cold.
In Count Yorga, Vampire, the Count is walking through the grounds of his castle talking to an old priest, who accuses the Count of being a vampire and killing several people (which is all true). The Count dismisses these accusations, and continues walking and talking with the priest, until they get to a section of boggy ground. The Count (being a vampire) does not fall into the quicksand, but the priest does. As the priest sinks under the bog begging for help, the Count admits to being a vampire, shies away from the cross that the priest holds up, and then watches from a distance doing nothing as the priest disappears and drowns.
    Jokes 
Old joke used with any Acceptable Professional Targets: If you saw a lawyer and a politician drowning, and you only had time to save one of them, would you go to lunch or read the paper?
    Literature 
Isaac Asimov's "Little Lost Robot": (Discussed Trope) Dr Susan Calvin immediately conceives of this danger when informed of the modifications to the NS-2 robots. Some of the models had their First Law were modified to say, approximately, "A robot may not harm a human being", which omits "...or through inaction, let a human come to harm". Dr Peter Bogert dismisses the idea that a robot with this modification can kill, and Dr Calvin then describes a robot dropping a heavy weight above a human, knowing that its quick reflexes will allow it to catch the weight in time to not harm the human; but then, having dropped the weight, it has the ability to decide not to stop the weight from killing the human. Dr Bogert is now almost as worried as he should be.
In Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None:
The Rogerses were accused of murdering their former employer by withholding her medication for her heart condition, which led to her death when she got a cardiac arrest.
Vera Claythorne is accused of letting her lover's nephew Cyril swim out to sea, despite knowing that he wasn't strong enough to swim that far out without drowning, so that he would die and his inheritance would pass on to her lover. She did swim out after him later, but it's left ambiguous if she had a too-late bout of genuine remorse or was just trying to make it look like she did try to save him (the 2015 BBC adaptation shows her very deliberately waiting long enough for him to drown before she swims out after him).
In the Dragonlance series this was the final step of Lord Soth's Slowly Slipping Into Evil descent. He had been tricked to believe that his second wife Isolde (who he had first gotten together with while still married to his first) was cheating on him and went to confront her when he should have been going to stop The Cataclysm. While he was doing this said Cataclysm began and caused a chandelier to fall on Isolde and their child. She begged him to save them, but he just stood by, and with her last breath Isolde cursed him. The castle itself was destroyed, but Soth rose as a Death Knight.
Dragon Bones:
Ward is asked about how his plan will affect his uncle. (As things are, his uncle could be killed by the villains). He, sarcastically, replies that the death of his uncle is just what he needs, now. To his shock, Oreg actually believes him, and is angry at him for the next few days, until Ward can bring himself to talk about the topic again.
Played straight earlier, when the nobleman Landislaw comes to him and wants help in recapturing a slave he lost, and who doesn't belong to him, and whose disappearance could cause Landislaw to be killed by the disgruntled owner. Ward says he doesn't care, slavery is wrong, and he never liked Landislaw anyway.
In Dream Park, a security guard with a cold is knocked out, tied up, and gagged. He is later found dead of asphyxiation, and it is believed that his running nose killed him. Subverted when he was murdered by a person he was blackmailing, who just had to pinch his nose shut long enough for him to suffocate.
Discussed In Masques: the heroes are in a kind of rebel camp, and there are two nobles who are pretty useless and only cause problems. They jokingly discuss the option of feeding those nobles to a dragon (they're male and their virginity is questionable, but it may be worth a try), or let them be eaten by the undead abominations. Or just fall down a hole in the caves the rebels are hiding in. They don't do any of those things in the end, as, after all, they're still the heroes.
Night Watch (Series): In Twilight Watch, Anton notices a subtle flaw in Well-Intentioned Extremist Kostya's plan that will make it fail in a manner that will kill Kostya. Anton keeps the information to himself while the plan goes forward.
Redwall: Ungatt Trunn dies when, after surviving being thrown into the sea with a broken back, finds himself stranded as the tide comes in. Then his much-abused former seer shows up to gloat, not doing a thing to get him out of the rising water.
In Raven In The Foregate, one of Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael mysteries, it turns out that the victim wasn't murdered (by being hit on the head and thrown in the river) at all. The sole witness simply didn't help him when he slipped on some ice, hit his head on a tree stump, and slid down the riverbank unconscious.
How Clyde finally kills Roberta in An American Tragedy — she accidentally falls overboard from their boat, she can't swim, and Clyde simply doesn't save her.
In A Song of Ice and Fire:
Many people counsel the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch to abandon the wildlings behind the Wall to be killed by the Others, due to the difficulty of saving them and their historical status as enemies of the Night's Watch. During one attempt to convince them why this is not a good idea, he points out that the Others raise the dead, and they're proposing giving their enemy thousands of soldiers.
House Frey learns a universal truth: don't try to really piss the neighbours off after decades of being pains, because they might just ignore you when you actually do need real help to not die of insurgency on all fronts... Since they are going to; buy popcorn to silently munch as they consider how lands and titles will be divvied up afterwards, offer heckled "advice" from the sidelines to you, offer real advice to those undermining you and/or critique the performances of the oh-so tragic Frey victims as they get killed. Right in front of them or relatives of them. Rather than, you know, help the decades-long problem family out of the Hate Sink hole they've definitely helped dig themselves.
In Sphere, Norman decides to abandon Beth and Harry to their fate by rationalizing how much trouble they've become and how their fears have almost killed him. It's only when he realizes that he's manifesting his own worst fear, the fear that he doesn't care about anyone besides himself, that he turns back and saves them.
In the short story "Sweat" by Zora Neale Hurston, Delia's abusive husband gets bitten by the same snake he used to threaten her with. After some deliberation, and realizing he'd die even if she did go for help, Delia just sits under the chinaberry tree and waits for him to die.
In Alexandr Grin's The Scarlet Sails
Menners refuses to aid the half-starved Mary whose husband is away on a long voyage and who also has a baby daughter to feed (or rather he agrees to help, but not for free). It leads to Mary going to a pawn-broker several miles away in a terrible storm, catching pneumonia and dying.
Mary's husband Longren gets his revenge when in another terrible storm several years later Menners' boat is carried off to sea and he cries for Longren to save him. Longren calmly stands on the shore and reminds Menners that Mary had pleaded too. Menners doesn't drown but gets frozen to death.
Warrior Cats:
Tigerclaw attempts to murder Fireheart in this way at least two times: in Fire and Ice, Tigerclaw lets Fireheart nearly be killed by Leopardfur; in Forest of Secrets, Fireheart falls in a river and nearly drowns while Tigerclaw watches, but Longtail saves him.
In Mapleshade's Vengeance, Mapleshade believes the deaths of her kits to be this: Frecklewish was watching to make sure Mapleshade left the territory when exiled, saw them swept into the river, and left. Frecklewish said she'd seen RiverClan warriors on the other side, and assumed that they'd be saved and she never wanted them to die; this is also what she told her own Clan. It's not clear if Frecklewish was lying or not, as we're limited to Mapleshade's POV and she was only aware of RiverClan once they pulled her out of the water.
The first death of the quest in Below happens when the easy-going Tibs alone notices that carnivorous jellies have followed the party, and Dex is closest to the door. He claims to have a very good reason for killing Dex, which is well-known to seemingly everyone but the protagonist. Others who learn that it was not an accident swiftly agree it was justified.
In the original novel of The Last King of Scotland, Idi Amin's personal doctor is being pressured by British Intelligence to assassinate him. He balks at this violation of the Oath, but hedges that maybe if it was a matter of denying Amin proper treatment...
Seen near the end of The Elenium. Princess Arissa, aunt of Queen Ehlana, is about to be killed by the heroes just as her son and lover have been (all three are guilty of treason, murder, and other serious crimes), and she performs a sort of Kill Steal by drinking poison. A few minutes later, however, she changes her mind and begs the mage Sephrenia to save her. Sephrenia has the skill and the power to do so, and is normally an extreme pacifist who can't stand to see anyone in pain; but she decides to make an exception for Arissa, and leaves her to her fate.
In the young adult novel Twins by Caroline R. Cooney, Mary Lee discovers that her twin sister Madrigal and her boyfriend had a bonding moment when they stood together on the shores of a lake and watched a man drown.
The Heroes of Olympus has the minor villian Octavian. He joins forces with an army of monsters to attack Camp Halfblood. He wants to kill the Greek demigods simply because they are Greek and not Roman demigods. When he is too close to a catapult, even his first officer does not warn him, so that Octavian will be fired with the catapult.
    Live-Action TV 
On 24, President David Palmer asks his ex-wife to deal with a powerful supporter who is blackmailing him. She goes to his house to speak with his wife, and gets in an altercation with him. The argument triggers a heart attack, and Sherry convinces the wife to withhold his heart medication, and the two watch him fall over dead.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.: In the episode "Nothing Personal", Deathlok threatens to torture Agent Ward to death if Skye won't decrypt the secret files for him. Since Ward has been revealed as a HYDRA mole, Skye resolves to let him die. She can't go through with it.
Babylon 5: JMS must like this trope since it appears multiple times in the series.
When an explosion leaves Londo and G'Kar stranded in an elevator, G'Kar cheerfully invokes and attempts to follow through with this trope, much to Londo's displeasure. He doesn't mind dying himself, if it means that Londo dies under circumstances that won't trigger Centauri reprisals against other Narns. However, G'Kar winds up as the one displeased when the elevator car is rescued at the end of the episode.
Out of jealousy, Lennier's final act on the show was to leave Sheridan behind a locked door, in a room being flooded with toxic gas. Subverted, in that, A.) he has a change of heart and goes back to correct the mistake, and B.) he returns to find others have arrived to save the day, and is forced to go on the run.
Breaking Bad: Walt watches Jesse's girlfriend, Jane, choke to death on her own vomit (she'd shot up with heroin). Jane had earlier demanded Walt fork over some drug money and threatened to rat him out. Made worse in that Walt had inadvertently moved Jane on to her back when he tried to wake Jesse up, and thus indirectly caused her death as well as refusing to prevent it.
A villainous example can be found in Buffy the Vampire Slayer. The ancient vampire Kakistos fights against the two slayers Buffy and Faith. And while a vampire of his age is capable of defeating a slayer, two slayers are too strong for him. Mr. Trick, his chief subordinate who also happened to be frustrated trying to the boss to embrace modern society and conveniences, sees that his master will probably lose the fight if he and some of the other minions don't jump in to help... and declares it a damn shame the boss wasn't more open to his ideas as he casually turns away from the fight, leading the others with him.
On Chicago Fire, Firefighter Cruz tries to get his brother Leon out of a gang led by the ruthless Flaco. At first, Flaco seems okay with it, but it ends with Leon being beaten. In a later episode, Flaco is caught in an apartment fire. Cruz finds him, Flaco begs him to save him, but Cruz leaves the room and leaves Flaco to his fate.
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation had an episode where a suicidal man jumped in front of a car and was embedded in the windshield. The driver, wanting to avoid charges for driving drunk, left him to slowly bleed out. The final insult to the driver as he's being charged is that if he'd saved the man's life, no charges would have been pressed due to the suicide note.
ER: Dr. Greene once found himself alone in an elevator with the abusive father of children that he (Greene) had helped get removed from their father's custody, and the father had gone on a shooting rampage, intending to kill Mark's wife and daughter. The patient went into cardiac arrest, and Mark allowed him to die while setting off the defibrillator to make it seem like he was attempting to save him.
Game of Thrones: Halfway through the first season, Viserys barges into a "whore's feast" completely drunk, and threatens to cut out his sister Daenerys's baby from her womb if Khal Drogo doesn't "give him his crown". After Drogo seemingly agrees, with Dany saying that Viserys will have "a golden crown that men shall tremble to behold", he has Viserys seized and melts his gold belt in a pot to "crown" Viserys. Viserys tries to plead with Dany, but she stands by and says nothing when Drogo returns, says, "A crown for a king!", and "crowns" Viserys by pouring the now-molten gold over his head, killing him.
Resoundingly defied by Jim Gordon in one of the turning points of his characters and Gotham as a whole. He can just hand big-time criminal Theo Galavan over to the Penguin and let him have his way with him and never see his face again while neither witnessing anything or incriminating himself. Does he do that? No, true to himself, he determines that by violating his code of conduct as a cop he would be as guilty as the Penguin and chooses to take as always the responsibility upon him to make sure both that Theo is executed and that his torture won't be prolonged as it would surely otherwise be.
One episode of The Guest Book has Jenna Fischer as a therapist who rents Froggy Cottage as part of an experiment. He takes an Alzheimer's patient there to see if recreating his past life will help him regain his memories. It works, but he then starts to revert to his life as a Klansman. Later, she discovers he once burned down a church and killed a black man in the process just before he starts an old pickup truck in the garage and asks her to go with him to church. When she and her assistant realize the garage is slowly filling with exhaust fumes, they leave him to gas himself.
Law & Order: UK: In the episode "Samaritan", based on the original Law & Order episode "Manhood"note , a homophobic policeman is discovered to have essentially killed his (gay) colleague by not getting him any help when he was shot (the courtroom section of the episode is mostly based around proving he was there and deliberately didn't do anything).
Luther: The biggest source of blackmail against Luther comes from the opening scene in the pilot, when a child molester nearly falls to his death while fleeing capture. Instead of helping the molester back on his feet, Luther lets the man fall to his death.
Medium: In one episode, a young Allison has visions about one of her friends. She sees that, by knocking on his door, she will stop him from killing himself, and many years later he will rape and murder teenage girls. So a few days later, she decides to not interrupt his suicide.
Midsomer Murders:
In "Death in Disguise", a death initially assumed to be natural causes turns out to be this. The victim suffered a heart attack and was calling for his medication, while the other present refused to give it to him, and stood by and watched him die.
There's one where a snobby wine lover is tied to his lawn while the murderer is catapulting wine bottles at him. His wife is brought to the window and sees the whole thing (though the murderer remains unidentified). When she sees the bottle miss, she calls out corrections to the murderer. The next morning, the police arrive but she of course didn't see anything. Downplayed in that the wife probably couldn't have saved her husband if she'd wanted to (she was wheelchair-bound, and her wheelchair had been disabled), but she certainly had the mindset of this trope.
"Birds of Prey": one Asshole Victim is a middle-aged man who lives with and horribly abuses his Maiden Aunts. So, when he comes home bruised after being hit by a car, one aunt realizes he's much more badly injured than he thinks, but puts him to bed and leaves him to die in his sleep.
Monk: In "Mr. Monk Meets His Dad", Ben Glaser starts to cut Kenneth Woods' tie loose when it gets caught in a running semi engine, then stops. (The two were co-owners of the same trucking company, and had just found evidence that Ben was defrauding the company by buying used parts and pocketing the difference.) However, Ben ultimately kicks Kenneth's feet out from under him, just to be on the safe side.
Nashville: Teddy watches as Lamar Wyatt has a heart attack. He begins to step forward to help, then stops, not even calling 911. Lamar dies.
Orphan Black: Suspecting Aynsley to be her monitor (erroneously), Alison does nothing to prevent Aynsley from accidentally strangling herself with a scarf and a drain grinder.
Person of Interest: At the end of the episode "Reasonable Doubt", John decides the POI and her husband just aren't worth saving, and leaves a gun for the husband to even the odds in allowing them to kill each other.
In the Korean Drama Who Are You?, Jang Yeon-hee's prospective mother-in-law really, really did not approve of the impending marriage between Yeon-hee and her son Park Woong-joon. So much so that when Yeon-hee goes into an asthma attack after a nasty argument with Mama Park, Mama Park holds onto Yeon-hee's asthma medication and watches her die.
Primeval shows Oliver Leek. He is gathering an army of Future Predators and controlling them with technology from the future. Nick Cutter annihilates this technology and simply leaves Leek to the predators without helping him.
In the first episode of the Vendetta season of Strike Back, Colonel Alexander Coltrane allows a henchman to bleed to death, having recognized him as a war criminal he clashed with when he was a lieutenant.
An episode of The X-Files shows the wealthy owner of a settlement that terrorizes its inhabitants with a tulpa. When Agent Mulder arrests him and ties him up so he can not escape, the tulpa comes up to him. He asks his neighbors to help him. But the woman says that he now gets what he deserves and goes away with her husband.
On Xena: Warrior Princess, this is how Xena originally killed Callisto; they tumbled down a hill, Callisto landed in quicksand and Xena simply let her sink. She got better, though. Multiple times.
On The Walking Dead, several characters end up killed this way by being left to the walkers.
    Music 
In Carrie Underwood's "Blown Away" a young girl gets rid of her abusive father by taking refuge in the storm cellar (and locking the door from the inside) while he’s passed out drunk and there’s a tornado headed straight for the house.
Tanya Tucker's "No Man's Land" is about a young girl being raped, growing up to be a nurse, and seeing that one of her sick patients is her rapist. She denies him medical aid while he begs for mercy and leaves him to die in prison.
A popular Urban Legend surrounds the Phil Collins song "In The Air Tonight". The legend usually involves someone watching someone else drown and being unwilling to help along with several other variations. In actuality, the song was about a divorce.
In Eminem's "Stan", Stan refers to the above rumour during the third verse, relating it to his own situation: by this point, the lack of reply from his beloved hero has driven Stan to commit murder-suicide. In the sequel song, "Bad Guy", Sten's younger brother Matthew sets out to get revenge on Eminem, believing that Eminem committed this trope by way of not responding to his brother's letters.
    Theater 
In Lillian Hellman's 1939 play The Little Foxes (later made into a 1941 film starring Bette Davis), Horace decides to cut his evil wife Regina out of his will, and tells her so. Shortly thereafter he feels a heart attack coming on and asks Regina for his pills. She does nothing, instead watching as he collapses. He dies a few hours later without changing his will.
Little Shop of Horrors: Seymour tries to shoot Orin the Depraved Dentist, but can't bring himself to. Moments later, Orin gets himself high inside a mask full of nitrous oxide (laughing gas), but finds he can't get it off and begs Seymour to help him get it off (while he laughs maniacally.) Seymour just stands by and Orin suffocates.
    Video Games 
Batman: Arkham City:
General consensus is that Batman kills the Joker after the events of the game. Granted, Batman was stabbed in the shoulder by the Joker, causing him to drop the only cure to the Joker's sickness, but random chatter in the post-game of City and throughout Batman: Arkham Knight make it clear that nobody sees much of a difference.
In Arkham Knight's "Season of Infamy" DLC, it's possible for Batman to do this. The end of the League of Shadows mission sees Batman given the choice between saving a feeble Ra's al Ghul, or letting him die of old age without the Lazarus Pit. It seems throughout the mission that Batman is considering the latter option for the greater good, but is worried it will break his one rule. Alfred even asks Batman beforehand "is not saving someone really the same as taking a life?"
Amnesia: Justine: The player character is presented with the option of doing this three times as a Secret Test of Character given to you by the title character, the Ax-Crazy Justine - who is the amnesiac Player Character.
In Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, you came across a prisoner who's going to be executed by the militias, in order to maintain your low profile in a stealth mission, it is wiser to remain silent and let him die. You may try to save him but he'll immediately be killed by the militias and your cover will be blown.
Ghost Recon: Future Soldier: The Ghost team deployed in Russia was about to take out the leader of the coup in Moscow when they were ordered by the US government to take him in alive. Ghost Leader is pissed off at this, but doesn't do anything to help the coup leader escape from being killed by an incoming train since he said "our orders were not to touch you."
Loghain's betrayal at Ostagar in Dragon Age: Origins basically amounts to this. Instead of performing his part of the battle plan, which involves attacking the darkspawn from the rear while King Cailan, his forces, and the Grey Wardens are busy on the front lines, he sounds a retreat and returns with his forces to Denerim, leaving the King, Duncan, and everyone else to die at the hands of the darkspawn.
Heavy Rain:
Norman Jayden can do this if he fights the Origami Killer in the end. The alternative is to save him and then kill him.
Shelby can also do this to Charles Kramer by not giving him his pills while he's having a heart attack.
In Ghost Trick, when Sissel speaks to Lynne after she dies and tells her that he saw a video feed of her shooting him, Lynne comments that he could easily get back at her for it by simply leaving her dead. Sissel has no intention of doing that, however.
Mass Effect:
Mass Effect: The Council mocks, questions, and otherwise screws you for most of the game, even colluding with Udina to ground your ship on the Citadel. At the climax, you have the option to leave the Citadel fleet and the Destiny Ascension to be annihilated fighting the Geth fleet, allowing the Alliance to ride in and mop up the remnants and take down Sovereign. The dialogue tree option literally says, "Let the Council die!" Later, a renegade Shepard has the option to claim he/she was waiting for a chance to get rid of them all along, prompting a shocked response from Anderson and a smug response from Udina. However, this option also causes 10,000 people to die, and can result in worsened relations between humanity and the other Council races.
Mass Effect 2: In Jacob's loyalty mission you have the option to leave Acting Captain Taylor to be presumably maimed and killed by his feral crew. Why? He set his mechs on you and his crew, brainwashed several of them to be mindless guards, forced most of the crew to worship him like a god, and passed around the female crew members like sex slaves between officers. His abuses are so unacceptable his own son recommends you kill him or leave him to die.
Mass Effect 3: The Renegade method to achieve peace between the Geth and Quarians is to tell the Quarians that you're sick of helping them out like you did in the past, and that if they attack the soon-to-be-upgraded Geth, they will die and you will not stop it; they will then get the hint and abandon the attack. This option does, however, require a fair bit of preparatory choices going back as far as Mass Effect 2 to be available (as is the more Paragonic alternative to reconciling the two sides).
In Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain, Huey Emmerich leaves his wife Dr. Strangelove to suffocate in the A.I. Pod she gets sealed into after she tries to stop him from placing their 2 year old son in Sahelanthropus. When she realizes she's never getting out she begs him for a quick death, but he just leaves. When her corpse is found later Huey tries to claim she committed suicide, but at this point his credibility has been shot to hell by his pathological lying so no one believes him.
In Until Dawn, this leads to a possible death for Chris. If you earlier chose not to save Ashley in the death traps, or tried to shoot her with the gun, she will refuse to open the door when Chris is being chased by Wendigos, and will watch him die instead.
Persona 4:
After Nanako's apparent death, the entire Investigation Team is so outraged at Namatame for his role in it that they seriously consider just tossing him into the TV world and leaving him to be ripped apart by the Shadows within as revenge; doing so leads to the Bad Ending. In The Animation, Yu very nearly does just that before managing to stop himself.
When the true killer is revealed to be Tohru Adachi, he adamantly insists to the protagonists that he himself didn't kill Ms. Yamano and Saki; he merely threw them into the TV world and let the Shadows do it for him. Of course, some of them point out that since he had some idea of what would happen to them when he did so, that doesn't make much of a difference. The party later averts this trope when Adachi asks them to leave him in the TV world to die after he loses to them, since they want him to pay for his crimes.
Persona 5: Ichiryusai Madarame, representative of Vanity of the Seven Deadly Sins, lives up to his namesake when he lets a woman die so that he can steal her painting and adopt her young son Yusuke, whom Madarame uses to make paintings that he passes off as his own. When this fact comes out, Yusuke loses any reason to forgive Madarame for his sins and attacks him.
Metro:
There are a few instances where this can happen in Metro 2033. In particular, on the Frontline mission, you can find a pair of Red Line officers interrogating an apparent deserter, who tells them that he was merely investigating a rumor about a shortcut behind the Nazi line, after which they kill him anyway unless you kill them first. Letting the man die makes you lose a moral point while saving him gains you one, so there's incentive to do if you're trying to get the "good" ending. On the other hand, letting him die and then allowing the officers to walk away is preferable if you're trying not to kill anyone, which is required to get the achievement/trophy "Invisible Man" (and also gets you a moral point if you do go through the entire level without killing anyone).
Metro: Last Light: One of the last levels in the game culminates with fighting Pavel and a bunch of communist soldiers in Red Square. After you wound Pavel and compromise his gas mask, the Little Dark One shows you his memories and then you're taken to a hellscape where the souls of the damned in the surrounding area start trying to drag Pavel in with them while he begs you for help. If you take too long getting to him or choose not to help, he dies; if you help him, he simply passes out and you replace the filter on his mask. Letting him die gets you the "Revenge" achievement/trophy, but it also practically guarantees that you'll get the "bad" ending.
Injustice 2: Wonder Woman, Superman, and Damian all accuse Batman of this, pointing out how his adherence to Thou Shalt Not Kill enables psychopathic villains like Brainiac or the Joker to just keep on killing.
Robin: You coward! We are at war with these animals! You think you're better than him!? You let the Joker keep on killing! You couldn't save Lois, or Jason, or ANYONE!
Wonder Woman: None of us wanted this. But the Joker forced our hand. Metropolis changed the world. Now WE have to change with it!
Superman: Metropolis and Coast City are gone. How many more innocent people have to die before YOU accept that some lives need to be TAKEN?!
In the DLC for Tomb Raider: Underworld, Lara Croft manages to take control of her doppelganger that was sent after her by Natla. Lara orders her clone to "make sure Natla suffers as long as possible" and then tells her to be independent and have free will while not taking orders from anyone anymore. Lara's clone then returns to Natla, who was wounded earlier, and is ordered to help free her from the debris. The clone simply stands there and watches with a devilish grin on her face as Natla starts to drown under the blue muck rising from the ground.
Vampyr: The player can opt for Jonathan to do this when he finds out that Dr. Swansea was responsible for the Skal epidemic in London. Considering the latter was mortally injured, Jonathan can leave him to die because of the severity of his act, straight up drain him or turn him into a vampire as a Cruel Mercy. Keep in mind the first one keeps your "Not Even Once" run clean, but allows the district to fall into chaos, the second one gives you extra XP on top of ruining your run and the district, and the third one preserves your run, the district albeit at a huge cost of your XP, but backfires because Swansea regards his new condition as a blessing and now the district is at the hands of a vampire Mad Scientist. So basically, there is no good option.
It's revealed late into Your Turn to Die that Keiji Shinogi refused to prevent his superior officer Megumi Sasahara from being ripped apart by chains.
    Web Comics 
Acheron says this of the elves in Inverloch when—after it becomes clearer and clearer that elven society is isolationist, arrogant, selfish, and hypocritical—he learns that his father was killed by an elf for the offense of... being mad that the elves had reneged on their word to protect the da'kor. Lei'ella, an exiled elf who's herself pretty disgusted with them, delivers a What the Hell, Hero? for his willingness to let the entire race die (including the girl he undertook the quest for in the first place) just because the ones in charge are terrible. In the end, the elves are saved, but are forced to recognize and reform their ways.
The Order of the Stick: When the Faux Affably Evil Thieves Guild leader Bozzok is being beaten to death in front of Grubwiggler, one of the people he's extorting for protection money, he gets a very clear explanation of why no help will be forthcoming:
Grubwiggler: I'm sick of your banal little guild's petty intrigues interfering in my magical research. All I want is to be left alone, and I suspect your eventual successor will be more willing to accommodate that desire. ...Farewell, Bozzok. You were never as clever as you thought you were. [Teleports away, leaving Bozzok behind]
    Web Video 
Dragon Ball Z Abridged: Following the scene where Krillin has mortally wounded Vegeta (as Vegeta requested), Dende is understandably unwilling to heal him on account of his partaking in the Namekian genocide. He reluctantly does so when Piccolo points out how screwed they are without Vegeta's assistance.
In Sword Art Online Abridged, Kirito almost does this when he comes home to find Suguha choking on a muffin, but to his own disappointment has undergone too much Character Development to go through with it.
Kirito: (thinking) This is it... this is the icing on my cake! A lifetime of physical and psychological abuse, brought to a swift and satisfying end! All I have to do... is nothing! I mean, this is just Darwinism at work! As long as I don't hand her this lifesaving juice that I am currently handing her NOOOOOOOOO!!
    Web Original 
In Dream's Minecraft Speedrunner VS 3 Hunters Finale Rematch, the Hunters are in the Nether fortress and Dream is chasing Sapnap, when all of a sudden Sapnap gets stuck fighting two wither skeletons while cornered. Dream just watches this happen as Sapnap begs him for help.
    Western Animation 
Avatar: The Last Airbender:
In a flashback showing parts of Roku's life, Sozin leaves Roku to die when the latter accidentally inhales toxic fumes from an erupting volcano, realizing with the Avatar out of the way, Sozin can proceed with his plans of world conquest unopposed.
In the season one finale, Zuko considers doing this to Admiral Zhao when the latter is attacked by the (giant, enraged) spirit of the oceans. After a moment's consideration, he holds out a hand to save Zhao, but the admiral refuses to allow his rival to save him, and is swept away to what was presumably his death. It turns out Zhao should have taken Zuko's hand, since he reappears in The Legend of Korra's second book as a wanderer in the Fog of Lost Souls for killing the Moon Spirit, which has driven him to insanity.
Avatar Kyoshi let Chin the Conquerer fall to his death when she split her home island off from the mainland. Aang points out to her towards the end of the series that she didn't actually kill him, to which she replies that she sees no difference between letting him die and killing him because she was willing to kill him if that was what it took to stop his reign of terror.
Kyoshi’s friend Yun got killed in her tie-in novel by his earthbending teacher, Jianzhu, in the same manner. Yun was believed to be the Avatar, so Jianzhu offered them both up to a spirit to see who it truly was. He chose to save Kyoshi once it was confirmed that she was the real Avatar, but left Yun to be taken by the spirit, fully expecting it to kill him. Yun ambiguously Came Back Wrong at the climax, just to return the favor, a lot more directly.
Bojack Horseman: It's eventually revealed in Season 6 that not only did Bojack wait seventeen minutes to call 911 when he discovered Sarah Lynn was dying from a heroin overdose at the planetarium in order to create an alibi for himself and make sure the police didn't discover he was the one who gave her the heroin in the first place, but that she didn't actually die until after EMS arrived and tried to save her. There's no way to know for sure whether immediately calling for help would have made a difference, but once a couple of reporters discover the incident and make it public, almost everybody, including many of Bojack's close friends and family, considers this trope to be in effect. He manages to avoid serious legal ramifications for that (the worst that happens legally is that Sarah Lynn's parents sue him for her death and he has to give them 5 million dollars for the settlement), but he becomes a pariah in Hollywoo and among the public at large as they're all disgusted that he was willing to let somebody die to save his own ass. Even his friends (except for Mr. Peanutbutter) keep their distance from him, and Hollyhock cuts him out of her life in response to what happened.
It is implied in The Dragon Prince that Viren acted so that Harrow get killed. Harrow was the king, and Viren was his wizard, and at the same time his only friend, or at least his oldest and closest confidant. When Harrow learns that elfish assassins want to kill him, Viren offers him to save his life with dark magic. But Harrow, who for some unknown reason does not want to have anything more to do with dark magic, reacts very gruffly. He forces Viren to kneel in front of him while humiliating, taunting and offending him. When the elven assassins finally defeat the king's bodyguards, Viren does not move a finger to rescue Harrow. He even stops Callum from coming to the aid of the king. Later, General Amaya also accuses him of allowing the elves to kill Harrow so he can become king himself. It should be mentioned explicitly that it is unknown if Viren could have fended off the elven assassins because they were simply very good assassins. But because Harrow treated him so badly, of course, Viren did not do anything to protect him.
In the Family Guy episode "Send in Stewie, Please," Stewie lets the preschool therapist he was talking to slowly die from a heart attack because he doesn't want his secrets getting out.
Subverted in Green Lantern: The Animated Series. Sinestro uses something like this trope as a defense when his actions result in the in-custody death of Naraxis ("I didn't kill him, I just didn't save him"), but its revealed to the viewer that Naraxis's death was anything but inadvertent; Sinestro actively manipulated events so that Naraxis would die, and actually gloated about it to the guy as he suffocated, making it just straight-up murder.
Justice League:
In "Twilight", Darkseid shows up in the Watchtower and asks for the League's help since Brainiac is attacking Apokolips. Superman, having suffered a lot at Darkseid's hands and expecting that Darkseid has an ulterior motive, only says, "Good." Superman turns out to be right.
In "The Enemy Below", Aquaman confronts his evil brother Orm who stole the Trident of Poseidon, tried to overthrow him, and put him and his baby son near a submarine volcano to kill them both off. When Orm ends up hanging over an abyss during their last fight, he shamelessly begs Aquaman to save him. Aquaman just picks up his fallen trident while coldly saying "I believe this is mine" and lets him fall.

Screaming Birth
New Age Midwife: Oh, I want Daphne to be awake and connected to the moment. A natural childbirth needn't be painful.
Roz: It needn't be, but it be.
— Frasier
When a character is pregnant in a series, especially a sitcom, there will be the inevitable Screaming Birth.
Commonly, TV birth happens mere minutes after the water breaks, precipitating a mad rush (in a taxi) to the hospital, frantic calls to the doctor, and apoplexy (or better yet, a nice dramatic swoon) by the father-to-be. And for some reason, nobody ever decides to take an epidural (as seen in the above quote, the modern workaround for this is having the woman opt for a "natural," painkiller free birth, often under the belief that giving birth is a natural part of being a woman she wants to fully experience. This line of logic usually only lasts until the first contraction hits.)
The rest of the episode is spent with the pregnant character lying flat on her back (the hardest conventional position in which to give birth, but the easiest for doctors and cameras), in pain, sweating, crying, cursing out her husband/boyfriend/babydaddy ("You did this to me! You're never touching me again, you bastard!"), or screaming his name if he's not there, and in many cases, often suddenly developing near superhuman grip strength, being able to suddenly shatter every bone in the hand of any poor sap who to tells her to squeeze their hand to help with the pain. Eventually, she's able to push a kid out of her birth canal with all attendant drama— don't be surprised, though, if the writers throw in one last twist, such as Surprise Twins! This ends with a damp but otherwise perfectly clean (three-month old) baby being held by an exhausted but beatifically smiling mother and an ecstatic father or father-figure. Just don't expect to see the delivery of the afterbirth, or the stitching-up of any perineal tears, either of which would no doubt spoil the mood. You will occasionally see the cutting of the umbilical cord by the nervous father, always obscured from direct sight and often Played for Laughs.
The chances are good that the mother will be unable to make it to the hospital and will deliver anywhere she might find herself (note: Never take the elevator if you will be riding with a pregnant woman or are near-term yourself). Can be combined with Locked in a Freezer, where the pregnant woman is the "danger" and the other characters have to help her give birth.
Since the 1970s, this is usually preceded by a Lamaze Class earlier in the season.
In Real Life, Screaming Births can be Truth in Television, especially when there are complications, but it's often a self-fulfilling prophecy if a woman tenses up in anticipation. In any event, it generally isn't the birth, which is almost always the shortest part of the process, that is painful, and is done without medication at any rate. The painful part is the labor that precedes it, which can last anywhere from two hours to three days.
Examples:
Anime and Manga 
Vandread The Second Stage uses this, coupled with a trapped in an elevator moment, right when the enemy attacks Nirvana and the systems are crippled with a virus. Hibiki must assist Ezra in delivering, the girls must manage without any VanDread backup, and Ezra could only get (remote) assistance from Duelo who's a doctor, but inexperienced with female physiology, and Magno's experience.
In the long run, both Hibiki and Duelo lose it during the birth, but Dita and Magno manage to keep it together and deliver the baby.
Tony's birth in Toward the Terra. With the added bonus of telepathy meaning that it was not only the mother who was in screaming pain, but everyone else in the area as well.
In Fullmetal Alchemist, when Ed and Al have to witness a woman giving birth, they do what most teenage boys would do in that situation... PANIC!!! Except for Winry, who, despite being a mechanical genius, knows what to do from her parents' books and coaches everyone into doing what needs to be done. And it gets done to the degree that the doctor who comes in later compliments her on a job well done. Mostly averted though, since the birth takes quite a long time and involves a great deal of blood. FMA's mangaka grew up on a farm and birthed many a livestock in her time, so she knows from experience.
Naruto: Naruto's birth, when a flashback is shown of his mother, Kushina Uzumaki, having him. Her exact words are "OH GOD, IT HUUUURRRRRTS!" Justified in that said baby had a gestation period of 10 months instead of the usual 9, plus there was the whole Kyuubi thing (Kushina was its Host at that moment) which would offer complications.
A very justified example in Gosick, where the mother ( Cordelia Gallo) was chained to a freezing-cold altar, flat on her back, with no visible assistance whilst a bunch of amateur mystics (including the rapist who'd given her the child in the first place) were performing a sinister ceremony on and around her. Frankly, it's a miracle that she and the child (Victorique) survived, and it's one of the most disturbing scenes in the show. Not to mention that the mother who gave birth has quite petite body, so, yeah, it's quite obstetrician's nightmare.
Played for drama in Berserk when Casca goes into labor in front of Guts and undergoes a miscarriage. Though the baby is underdeveloped and mutated, thus it SURVIVES, she's still going through all the bouts of labor pain and "silently" screams when the fetus comes out. All other examples within Berserk are horrifically justified, as many pregnant women are impregnated with demon spawn and aren't as lucky as Casca to have a somewhat safe vaginal birth...
In the Distant Finale for Hugtto! Pretty Cure, Hana giving birth to Hugtan (aka Hagumi) is depicted as this, with Hana screaming almost all the way through.
In JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Vento Aureo, Doppio's/Diavolo's mother is seen and heard screaming inside her prison cell as she's about to give birth. The wardens are baffled when they realize she's pregnant, since they're in a women's-only prison and she's been imprisoned for two years already.
    Comic Books 
The author of the series ElfQuest, Wendy Pini, made a very deliberate aversion to the screaming birth scenario at the end of the first major arc. True, it happens during a moment of great significance, but the mother is sitting up halfway, supported by her husband, and their two little children (roughly 3 and 5) stand by watching. It's a joyous event, and there is sweat and strain but no screaming or negative emotions. The midwife takes the little baby, cord still attached, and lays him on the mother's stomach, and the whole family cuddles up together.
Not quite as joyous, but much later when Kahvi gives birth, she's squatting over an animal skin, holding onto bars, sweating and straining, while a tribesmate plays a flute. Again, no screaming or negative emotions. This is the general case with every shown birth to date. Also quite a breath of fresh air, to treat it as a joyous and natural occasion with the mother-to-be as agent instead of patient.
Anyway, the fact that elves have a two year gestation period means they have plenty of time to prepare...
One of the later storylines showed Skywise's mother resisting the process of labor, as she's been captured by humans and fears they'd kill or abandon her baby if she gives birth. Suppressing her contractions is apparently far more painful than yielding to them in the end.
Partially subverted in the comic Gold Digger where weres like the main character Brittany Diggers suffer no labor pains whatsoever due to the lycanthropic enchantment. Then played straight when it turned out Brittany's enchantments weren't entirely intact, causing her labor to be much much worse than a normal human's... until the werewolf midwife Jetta came up with the impromptu solution of biting the expectant mother, sharing Jetta's own enchantments and causing things to go back to the wereperson norm of no pains whatsoever.
Fully invoked in The Pulse. Jessica Jones screams so loud that the reporters gathered outside Dr. Strange's house can hear her.
Fully justified times six in Fables when Snow White is in labor with her and Bigby's kids.
Snow White: Oh God! Oh God! Oh God! Put a gun to my head and shoot me now! I'll die this time, I promise....Please, please, please just make them stop coming out of me! I'll do anything! I'll give you the key to any one of Bluebeard's treasure rooms! Your choice!
Les Tuniques Bleues: A Union detachment runs into refugees, one of which goes into labor. The Confederates hear the screams and assume the Northerners are torturing women. They charge, but are quickly hushed by the rest of the soldiers (Chesterfield being the unfortunate man roped into helping), and they all agree to a ceasefire so they can get into position to kill each other. Once that happens, they sheepishly agree that they all just want to leave, and do so.
Inverted with the opening scene of Saga, in which Alana is giving birth to her daughter Hazel; she's collected enough that she's able to crack wise and seems to be more distressed by the idea that she might be shitting in front of her husband than she is at any pain. When she does cry out, Marco asks her if she wants any pain relief; she says that she's not in pain and that it actually feels good to her, wondering whether it's "sick for it to feel this good."
Zig-zagged in Baby Blues: when giving birth to Hammie, Wanda did a lot of screaming and hitting Darryl (to the point where he had to wear a catcher's mask) while in labor, but ultimately didn't scream during the delivery. She did scream while giving birth to their third child, Wren...which morphed into a triumphant "I KNEW IT!" when the doctor announced that it was a girl.
In Zero Hour, Power Girl screams as she is giving birth to her child, which Wonder Woman acts as the midwife of.
The second Atari Force series has the backwater planet creature scream as it gives birth to the Dark Destroyer's humanoid form.
    Fan Works 
JLA Watchtower/DC Nation universe: Ralph Dibny is busy battling Sonar, leaving Flash and Hal Jordan to take Sue (who is in labor) up to the Watchtower. Mid-Nite is in surgery, and can't be paged, leaving the Dibnys' kid to be delivered by Flash, Hal, Martian Manhunter, and ''Eel O'Brien!''. For extra fun, get a Yiddish dictionary, since Nationverse-Sue is very fluent in Yiddish swearing.
Sue: Can you schmendricks get me to a god DAMNED doctor?!
Plastic Man:Whoaaa, Sue Dibs, baby, this is NOT how I ever wanted to peek up your skirt!
Sue: KISS MY ASS, EEL! AND GET ME SOME FUCKING PAINKILLERS!!!!
Martian Manhunter: Hal. Your ring. It can give you medical information and instructions, correct?
Plastic Man: Sorry, but your ass is in the general vicinity of some major ju-ju that I REALLY don't want to get close to right now! Ask me again later!
Hal Yes, but I...Damn. Damn. Just... damn. Ring, please bring up information on human reproduction... err... the delivery of human children. And begin providing pain-relief to Sue immediately.
Flash Should I be boiling water? You're supposed to boil water - or is that for the flu? Uh... do we have paper towels?
The My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic fanfic Windfall revolves around the Elements of Harmony reuniting for the birth of Fluttershy and Big Macintosh's first foal. After several hours in labor, the normally quiet and demure Fluttershy is heard screaming her head off at Big Macintosh and trying to strangle him. Granny Smith nods sagely and remarks that Macintosh is getting off easy compared to her husband at the birth of her first child.
Child of the Storm mentions that Lily Potter had one of these, with the full battery of screaming and violent threats to her husband of the exact details of what would happen if he ever touched her again. Pepper, by contrast, has a much easier birth.
Jenna has one of these combined with Instant Birth: Just Add Water! in My Inner Life, panting and screaming the second her water breaks, squeezing Link's hand, and shouting "You did this to me! Damn you, Link!" Of course she instantly calms down midway through the birth (during some faux-drama) and after the baby comes out.
Pops up as a quick gag during Families. According to Pinkie, Mrs. Cake was like this when birthing the twins. Aside from screaming "these funny words to Mr. Cake that [Pinkie's] not allowed to repeat", she also apparently grabbed a scalpel and used it on Mr. Cake and Nurse Redheart.
In the Pony POV Series, Discord's mother Entropy does not have a pleasant time birthing her children (due to being the opposite of life and thus the act of creating is even more painful for her), to the point the universe quakes from it. Afterwards, she erases her mate Havoc from existence (he wills himself back into it seconds later) for saying they might have to try again.
The Mistress actually goes through this in Chapter 13 of the Superjail! fanfic Extended Stay while delivering mixed-gender twins.
Somewhat subverted and portrayed more seriously than most examples in Chapter 20 of Lucky Star: After Story. Despite being in labor, Konata manages to stay calm throughout most of the ordeal, even if she did end up crying at one point. Also, she did occasionally scream from the pain.
In the Soul Eater / Naruto crossover He'll Never Be My Son, it's implied that Medusa had one of these with Crona. The actual birth isn't shown (it skips from her telling Orochimaru, the father, that she's pregnant to twenty minutes after the birth), but it's mentioned that she smacked Kabuto in the face with a heavy book and gripped Orochimaru's hands so hard it left large bruises.
Frollo has one in Delivered From Frollo. It's so bad, he's almost breaking the chains holding him in place.
Zelda undergoes one in chapter 40 of Blood and Spirit. She even reflects in the narration that getting mortally slashed across the chest by a Majora-possessed Link was nothing compared to the pain of childbirth.
Played for Drama in the first version of Acts of Treason. The aged-up Myrcella has a difficult first birth after marrying Robb Stark—she's in labor for a long time since the baby was either breech or got stuck, and she ends up with some form of PTSD due to having nightmares about dying in childbirth.
Happens a lot in Chrom/Female!Avatar fanworks dealing with the birth of Lucina, usually with Chrom banned from the birthing room and left to pace and fret while the female Avatar screams and suffers until the happy parents are cradling their new baby in their arms.
In Time Fixers: Nicktoons of the Future, Cindy's screams echo through the woods as she gives birth to Max at the campsite while Jimmy and the Nicktoons are trying to rescue Junior from the SpongeCog robots.
Averted in Empath: The Luckiest Smurf in regards to both the main character's birth by his mother, and the birth of his daughter Psycheliana by his wife Smurfette, as both female Smurfs endure a pregnancy delivery that seems to be rather painless due to the children both being telepaths.
Played straight with Hero's two wives, Wonder and Smurfette, in the births of his two daughters in Hero: The Guardian Smurf. In fact, Hero's first wife grabs him by the neck and nearly strangles him as she yells at him during the delivery.
In the Discworld of A.A. Pessimal, Fiery Redhead Johanna Smith-Rhodes spends most of the delivery of her firstborn screaming dire threats at her husband, who is of course in the traditional waiting room being buoyed up by sympathetic fellow fathers. All is forgiven, if not forgotten, once the child is born...
The Frozen one-shot Call the Midwife revolves around Anna having this sort of birth while her husband Kristoff is stuck in the middle of a blizzard.
The Golds: Isabelle's birth is not portrayed as a "quiet affair".
In Joys of the Parenthood - The Țepeș Edition, Lisa spends the majority of her labor screaming Freudian Threats at her husband.
Sandstorm yowls while kitting in Bitter Repercussions.
Us and Them: When Aeris was born, Ifalna was screaming. And swearing. And Gast taped the whole thing.
    Film 
In the opening of Batman Returns, The Penguin is born from one of these. And when his parents finally see him for the first time, even the father screams.
In Men in Black, an alien woman gives birth in the back of a taxi, and Will Smith's character is instructed to "Just catch." As the infant is born, huge tentacles emerge from the window of the vehicle and hoist him into the air.
The comedy movie Knocked Up uses this trope after the woman has been given medicine to speed labor — probably Pitocin, which makes the whole process more painful. She was opposed to being given this medicine and it was implied the labor may be in trouble, so she has reason to scream.
Parodied in The Movie of Coneheads, where the alien Connie's birth is accompanied by oceans of fluid, truly epic mugging from her mother Prymaat, glass-shattering howls, and literally crushing her husband's hand as she shouts "I hate you, Beldar! I hate yoooou!" And then Beldar, when asked by the obstetrician if he would like to cut the umbilical cord (and being offered a pair of scissors to do so), leans in and bites clean through it. Cue the obstetrician's humourous fainting.
The Lifetime Movie of the Week Fifteen and Pregnant employs this, sans the girl screaming at the baby's father (her own father chases the guy and his new girlfriend away).
This is par for the course in any Lifetime Movie of the Week that deals with pregnancy.
Played straight to horrible squick-inducing levels in the 90's version of Frankenstein. Victor's mother dies after a horribly bloody birth and Victor COLLECTS AMNIOTIC FLUID (ewwwwwww!) from a woman who, despite the fact that her water is just breaking, screams like the baby is coming out sideways.
Used at the start of Star Trek (2009). Granted, the woman is allowed to sit up somewhat while she gives birth, and as the birth is taking place in the middle of an attack and evacuation (with her husband still on-board the ship), she has several perfectly good reasons to scream. The novelization also establishes that Kirk was not born that way in the original timeline, that the altered timeline with the stress brought on by Nero's attack and George Kirk's Heroic Sacrifice forced Winona into premature labor.
In the film of Vilhelm Moberg's The Emigrants tetralogy, Kristina's sixth childbirth is shown on-screen, and it's a screaming one.
Completely averted in the Sex and the City movie. The pregnant character in question goes into labor under relatively normal circumstances, is promptly taken to the hospital in a readily available car, and then the movie timeskips to a post-birth recap from her husband.
In the movie, Precious, the title character uses this when she goes into labor at school. The scene cuts to her being on a stretcher and she is screaming in pain. Lenny Kravitz, who is a nurse, comes to Precious' stretcher and tells her to stop screaming. She does for two seconds and then goes right back to screaming.
In Jersey Girl, Jennifer Lopez's character screams her head off during labor, and then immediately passes out and dies from some sort of brain trauma. J.Lo's terrible acting makes it pretty narmy, to be honest.
In his concert film, Himself, Bill Cosby described the birth of his first child:
"At the next contraction, my wife told everyone in the delivery room that my parents were never married!"
In Children of Men, Kee gives us lots of painful screams well before and during the delivery. Given that no-one on Earth has had a child in years, presumably she's more tense than a woman in her position would normally be.
Averted in Addams Family Values, when Morticia gives birth to Pubert, she does nothing worse than barely audible grunting. Then again, considering that she's Too Kinky to Torture, this is probably child's play for her. (Indeed, when asked if she is in excruciating pain, she just coyly answers 'oui'.)
Also, hilariously preceded by Morticia's opening moment.
(completely blasé) Marvelous news. I'm going to have a baby. (Beat) Right now.
[cut to her being rushed through the hospital]''
The mother in The Road is screaming her lungs out.
There's a very intense birth giving scene at the end of Altman's 3 Women. It turns out to be a stillbirth.
In Away We Go, a friend of Burt and Veronica's mentions that when she gave birth to one of her kids, there was screaming. Because she "...had the biggest orgasm in my my life".
Shoot 'em Up. Justified when you've got a shootout taking place all around you, including hot cartridge cases dropping onto your belly. It doesn't help when the man helping with the delivery elects to cut the umbilical cord with a point-blank gunshot.
The beginning of Taxi 2 has Daniel drive a pregnant woman and her husband to a hospital. He doesn't arrive in time, so the birth has to take place in his taxi — just when his girlfriend Lilly calls him on the cellphone. Lilly mistakes the moaning and screaming woman in Daniel's presence for an entirely different situation, what the woman says does anything but convince her otherwise, and even the husband's words when Daniel hands him the phone suggest that Daniel is having a ménage à trois.
Justified in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves. Fanny, Little John's wife, is having birthing complications delivering her eighth child. Complications, according to Azeem, that could potentially kill her and the baby both if not addressed.
Commissar is about a commissar during the Russian Civil War who is forced to leave her Red Army unit and board with a peasant family when she becomes pregnant. Beyond all the screaming, and calls to the midwife to stop torturing her, Klavdia passes out and has a Dream Sequence about the fellow cavalryman who knocked her up.
In Blankman, Blankman and Kevin find a woman in labor while trapped in a broken elevator. Kevin tells her to hold his hand, and she blindly grabs his crotch. As the Delivery Guy, Blankman is quite nervous. All three end up screaming at once, two from pain and one from panic.
In WarCraft, Draka screams in pain as she gives birth. She's gone into labor while crossing the Portal, which causes complications.
Holocaust 2000: Sara gives birth to her and Robert's child while screaming, an event for which Robert himself is absent because he's convinced that his newborn is The Antichrist and tried to have it aborted against Sara's will before.
Happens at the end of the obscure 1988 Irish film Reefer and the Model. What happens afterwards is up to the viewer to decide.
Prince Caspian starts with a dramatic camera close-up on Lord Miraz's wife Prunaprisma, performing this trope with a disturbingly accurate cry as she gives birth to a son.
The 1970 version of Wuthering Heights portrays Cathy's delivery of her baby this way. Probably justified, as she was already sick and emotionally overwrought, and she doesn't survive the birth.
Played for Horror in the opening scene of Dead Night. Quite justified, considering the supernatural nature of the fetus.
Strange Nature: Jodie lets out quite a few screams while giving birth to Danielle.
In The Fly (1986), Veronica has a gruesome nightmare where she starts screaming not because she's in pain, but because she can see what she has just given birth to - a three foot long, blood-coated and still writhing maggot.
Left for Dead: Michelle undergoes a screaming birth while trapped in the Ghost Town of Amnesty. Blake attempts to leave Clem to deal with the delivery, claiming that women are more used to this sort of thing. Clem forces him to deliver the baby because a) he's the father, and b) Michelle's screams are likely to attract the Big Bad and he is no condition to defend them but she is.
Relative Fear: Adam's mother spends almost the entire opening scene screaming nonstop, in contrast to Linda's more peaceful birth. Most of this is rage at the fact that her baby is going to be taken away, but at least some of it seems to be actual pain.
Sandy giving birth to alien twins in Inseminoid. Her screams are bone-chilling to the point one was used for the jumpscare sound effect in the first Five Nights at Freddy's game.
    Literature 
In Clan Of The Cave Bear, Ayla's long, screaming, bloody delivery of Durc frightened the rest of the Clan, and left her weak and near death for days afterward. More justified than many examples in that she's eleven years old and a Cro-Magnon giving birth to a Neanderthal father's child, a situation which usually results in Death by Childbirth for the mother, and no other character in the series has this.
A particularly ludicrous example comes from Stephen Baxter's Evolution, where a woman goes through a Screaming Birth... and then is able to calmly discuss what her newborn's actions mean in terms of evolutionary heritage a moment later. Then again, the book was written by a man.
In Lindsey Davis' Time to Depart, Helena Justina screams, cries, insults her husband, threatens divorce, and then breaks his hand. To be fair, this was in the Roman empire, with the lack of sophisticated midwifery that implies, and he was dousing her with olive oil at the time. (And most of the dramatic details are drawn from Falco's subsequent snarky letter to his best friend, so he may have exaggerated.)
Averted in Stephen King's The Breathing Method, in which the mother practices the titular breathing method, which is designed to let the woman "use her breath for something more useful than screaming". Unfortunately, this is a contributing factor in her death; the taxi driver taking her to hospital is creeped out when she's breathing heavily but not screaming, turns to check if she's okay, skids on a patch of ice, and crashes the cab, killing her, though she doesn't let a little thing like decapitation interfere with the delivery of her child. The narrator mentions that this was very common in the '30s, since women heard from everywhere that giving birth is very painful - so it turned out to be painful.
In Homeland, the first of the books in The Legend of Drizzt series, Drizzt Do'Urden is born during the middle of House Do'Urden's attack on House De Vir. Not only is Matron Malice Do'Urden in pain, but she and the house wizards manage to channel her intense pain into a spell that kills the Matron Mother and clerics of the house they're attacking.
A Swiftly Tilting Planet: Subverted. A Magical Native American is depicted as giving birth in complete silence, but the white townspeople expect women to scream during labor. Said townspeople happen to be Puritans at the height of the American witchcraft scare, so it's treated by the townspeople as a sign of devilry.
Twilight takes this one further as Bella's delivery of Renesmee is not just a screaming birth, but a spine-snapping, blood-vomiting nearly lethal birth. Granted Nessie WAS half-vampire and Bella was not...
Melanie Wilkes in Gone with the Wind gives birth like this, but it's because her body shape is unfit for it. Scarlett gives birth easily, with almost no pain, at least with her first child.
As stated by Ellen, Scarlett's own mother, a proper lady was expected to keep as silent as possible during childbirth - so as to not disturb the men. Probably not Truth in Television for the time period since the men would have been nowhere nearby in real life, but still utterly ludicrous. Melanie breaking this social rule shows just how difficult her labor is. Scarlett encouraging her to scream and yell as much and as loudly as she wants to is a sign that she cares more for Melly than she's willing to admit to herself.
In the historical novel Red Plenty by Francis Spufford, a pregnant woman in the Soviet Union circa 1960 is shocked to hear the sound of screaming from another ward, and is relieved to find she isn't taken there... at first. She even reprimands another woman for using foul language during her contractions — and ends up swearing like a sailor herself. Hospitals use psychoprophylaxis (a Soviet-invented predecessor of Lamaze) but the inept Soviet system ensures that women and nurses are not properly instructed in the method; the woman ends up threatening the nurse with her influential husband to get hold of drugs to kill the pain (which is regarded as a capitalist delusion).
Apparently these were common in novels from the twenties, soon after it became possible to talk about childbirth at all; Flora in Cold Comfort Farm is surprised when someone gives birth easily, and reflects that it is not at all like the books she has read. (Inexact quote: "These days, she skimmed through new novels, and if her eye lighted on words like "screaming" or "sweat-dewed brow" or "clutching the bedpost", she put the book firmly back on the shelf".)
Somewhat lampshaded with Meriam in the same work. Flora hears the girl screaming and comes to help, only to find that Meriam actually gave birth with little trouble the day before; she just felt that no one had paid her enough attention the first time.
In Warrior Cats, while there isn't actually any screaming involved, the she-cats will be given a stick to bite down on when the pain comes. Said stick usually snaps at the end.
15 year old Diana Ladris has one in FEAR. In a pitch-black, scorching hot mine with two psychopaths who torture her relentlessly, no less. Played for drama.
In The Red Tent, this happens to Rachel as she gives birth to Joseph. Her screams actually scare away Jacob, who was pacing around outside the birthing tent. Justified Trope, as it was a difficult birth that almost killed her.
It also happens to a few other characters, including The Protagonist. Some survive... and some do not.
In The Kingdom of Little Wounds, Isabel screams to pretend she is in labor after she has already given birth. Further played with in that she didn't scream when she was in labor.
In the Left Behind book Apollyon, Hattie Durham has a screaming birth as she delivers a stillborn child that requires a doctor and nurse to deliver due to complications.
The Silerian Trilogy: Elelar has one. Justified since it was a supernatural event that involved lava flowing out of her womb. Ouch.
Survivor Dogs: Sweet made a lot of noise while giving birth to her puppies.
Inverted in Wicked. While in labor with Elphaba, Melena is given leaves to make her pass out. She mentally curses her husband for being the reason she's in so much pain before promptly fainting. Melena doesn't wake up until after her daughter is born.
Sisterland: The epidural the twins' mother receives only numbs half her body, causing her to be partially paralyzed and in excruciating pain during the birth and leaving her traumatized.
    Live-Action TV 
Friends
Carol & Ross: Ben
Phoebe's triplets, which is parodied in the same episode, where Joey goes through the same experience by passing a kidney stone.
Rachel & Ross when they had Emma, since Rachel spent over 40 hours waiting for the baby after her water broke. Then again, according to dates given in the series, she was pregnant for about thirteen months... There was also a woman next to her, who gave birth almost instantly, annoying Rachel.
To help Rachel prepare for Emma's birth Phoebe lends her a friend's birthing video, which is apparently nothing but the mother screaming at the top of her lungs.
Chandler & Monica subvert this with the baby they've arranged to adopt. The birth mother doesn't even realize she's in labor for a while, thinking she's just having stomach cramps. And, after everyone realizes the baby's coming, it's Monica who starts panicking and the birth mother who, in mid-contraction, has to calm her down.
Frasier. Roz's delivery of her daughter in season 5 is one of these, although we ultimately only see a few moments of it. Later, during the final season, Daphne considers having a natural, painkiller-free birth but Roz uses her own experience to talk her out of it. The final straw is when Daphne sees the birthing video of the couple who originally suggested the natural birth. The mother is loudly screaming and threatening everyone in the room. The doula who attended claims the woman laughed about the whole thing afterwards but Daphne isn't convinced.
Star Trek: The Next Generation
Deanna Troi (subversion; she's breathing a little heavy, but when asked if she wants something for the pain, she says "I have felt no pain.")
The birth of Miles and Keiko O'Brien's first child was combined with Locked in a Freezer, and had Lieutenant Worf as the Delivery Guy.
This received a hilarious Call-Back on Deep Space Nine, when Keiko announced her second pregnancy. Chief O'Brien used the exact words, "having a baby", prompting a 'visibly alarmed Worf to exclaim, "Now?!" Upon finding out that the baby was due in seven months and Bashir jokingly suggesting Worf could assist with the delivery Worf came out with this choice line.
Worf: Unfortunately, I will be away from the station at that time. Far away. Visiting my parents. On Earth. Excuse me.
Averted in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, where Kira, the birthing woman was of an alien species whose births are generally quiet, serene, and painless. Although she was giving birth to a human child, hers was no exception. Ironically, she was acting as a surrogate for Keiko O'Brien, (who had an accident during her second pregnancy resulting in the baby being transferred to Kira via Applied Phlebotinum) whose first pregnancy was mentioned above.
Star Trek: Voyager. Justified when Ensign Wildman is giving birth to a Half-Human Hybrid with forehead spikes; the Doctor has to resort to teleporting the baby out of the womb when it gets stuck.
Dharma & Greg
Lost has shown many births on screen, often ending badly for the mother. The second one was somewhat of an aversion - although the woman was lying on her back (in a forest, assisted only by her husband), when they showed the newborn, he was actually not only newborn-sized but covered in blood and other fluids.
The births in question are Aaron (on the island), Ben (whose mother subsequently dies), Ji Yeon (born in the future after Sun leaves the island), Locke (who is born premature and whose mother gives him up for adoption), Ethan (who is delivered by a time traveling Juliet), and Jacob and the Man in Black (whose mother is subsequently murdered by the mysterious woman who delivered them).
Don't forget Desmond and Penelope's son, Charlie, born on a boat in the Philippines.
JAG:
Harmon Rabb delivers a baby in "Code Blue" in a DC hospital taken over by Hamas terrorists. During the woman's labor, he is instructed over a cell phone to check her dilation, but is reluctant to look under her dress, having never met her before. Panting, she tells him she doesn't have anything he hasn't seen before, so he bends down to look—then informs her with wide eyes that, in fact, he has never seen that before.
AJ Chegwidden delivers two babies in his office: Bud and Harriet's son in "Yeah, Baby", and another baby in "All ye Faithful".
Aunt Viv in The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air when in labor with Nicky. Complete with serial hand crushing and ripping part of the banister off the stairs. There's a stuck in an elevator scene, but it's Will and Uncle Phil that are stuck, trying to get to the hospital.
Parodied in an episode of the UK sitcom Absolutely Fabulous, where there are separate "flashbacks" depicting the births of the two protagonists. Edwina's mother gives birth in a relentlessly "1950's" hospital setting, perfectly made-up and almost completely engulfed in white bedding; the only noise she makes is an almost subliminal "ooh!". Patsy's mother has her on a couch in a silk-strewn artist's garret, running through a loud and pretentious self-narration the entire time. How much of all this "actually happened" is open to debate.
Blossom (this one occurred in a car on a congested expressway)
Family Ties - Elyse goes into labor right when she is singing a song on TV and the sudden pain makes her hit the high note with an unexpected level of volume and pitch.
Subverted in that after the sudden shock of it she assures everyone it doesn't hurt too much, just a twinge every now and then. Probably because she already had three other kids prior she's used to it.
Murphy Brown Alongside Murphy's birth of Avery, one of her may secretaries also recalled her birth while Murphy was still pregnant.
Jane: I was in labor for thirty-seven hours. Over a day and a half of the most horrible, unbelievable pain I've ever felt in my life. And I was pinned under a bus once, so I know pain. They had to tie me down to the table after I kicked my obstetrician in the windpipe. My husband took a video, it's just hour after hour of me begging to be killed.
Newhart parodied this as Yuppie Stephanie managed to give birth with only a few yips, more concerned about the camera crew her TV Producer husband brought in to film the birth than about any pain she experienced.
Mad About You (where Jamie's mother, played by Carol Burnett, reacts to Jamie's decision to have a "natural" childbirth, with no epidural, with a hilarious "Are you out of your mind?!?" A great commentary on changing ideas on "modern" childbirth.)
This was most likely a Shout-Out to one of Burnett's famous quotes, where she attempted to describe the pain of childbirth to men: "Take your bottom lip and pull it over your head."
The Practice (where the floor of a courtroom is used as a Locked in a Freezer)
Saved by the Bell (combined with a variation of Locked in a Freezer involving an earthquake, an elevator, Zack Morris, and Mr. Belding's wife)
Doogie Howser, M.D. (Vinnie, not the titular Doctor, trapped in an elevator with a teacher. Fortunately, he and Doogie had spoken often on the subject of childbirth, this being a natural side-effect of their frequent discussions of sex.)
Night Court (About a dozen pregnant women trapped in the courthouse due to a blizzard. Years later, this occasioned a Continuity Nod when the only doctor available for another delivery was not an obstetrician: he sarcastically asked how many people who were not obstetricians had delivered babies, and everyone raised their hands.)
Doctor: What are you people? Some sort of cult?
Don't forget when Quon Lee gave birth. And ripped the sleeves off Roz's uniform.
The Dick Van Dyke Show: Laura goes into labor with Richie in an elevator stuck between floors. Naturally, Rob panics. Laura, for once, does not.
On All in the Family, Gloria begins labor, and steps into a phone booth to let her parents know, then gets stuck. Funny, because of Sally Struthers' deft handling of the physical comedy. She makes it out of the booth in plenty of time, incidentally, as this birth is preceded by a realistically long labor. It was also the first birth scene on American television, and quite realistic— lots of panting, grunting and sweating, but no screaming, and a very, very boring wait in the white-walled labor room which had a bed, a chair, and one table. Hospitals didn't put TVs in them, and TVs only got a few channels anyway, and went off the air at midnight. It's also the first time a TV father (in the US) was in the delivery room, reflecting the fact that US hospitals were just beginning to allow this.
This is one of the earlier uses of "will they get there in time," and employs something mundane, a phone booth, as opposed to an elevator or a cab heading into traffic, which you know will be a problem as soon as the actress steps into it. Stepping into a phone booth seems totally innocuous. Struther makes the call to her parents, turns around, and discovers that door is stuck. ( It's important to note that nothing over the top silly, like Struthers being stuck because the booth is too small for a woman who is nine months pregnant; she fits fine. She is stuck in the booth because the door won't open.)
If a show tried to use this schtick today, it might not play as well, because the "will they get to the hospital?" is pretty old; it wasn't so cliche back then. And Struthers handles it beautifully. She isn't generally thought of as a physical comic, but she was up for anything the writers of All in theFamily threw at her, including this.
Played to comedic effect in the episode of My Family where Janey has a baby. As Susan and Ben drive to the hospital, there are flashbacks to the birth of their first child, with much drama and over-the-top screaming. When they arrive, the baby has been born with no trouble at all, and Janey is sitting up painting her nails.
In the UK comedy series Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps, Janet goes into labour in her own house. While her husband Jonny proves utterly useless in getting her to the hospital (she eventually gets there by the end of the episode), she spends much time screaming and wailing, describing the sensation as "like someone's opening an umbrella in (her) ass" and screaming "the baby's trying to kill me!".
Aeryn's labor in the Farscape mini series. Which she has whilst under siege. Half-standing up. Having fought up to the moment she decided she wanted the baby out of her.
Aeryn: Shooting makes me feel better!
Scrubs played with this Trope, during one of JD's dream sequences, when he ponders that most women assume childbirth will be this wonderful, magical thing. It then switches to a black-and-white fifties-era instructional video, where JD spells it out:
JD: (to the viewer) You'll fart, pee, puke, and poo in front of ten strangers who will be staring intently at your vagina—which, by the way, has an 80% chance of tearing! (Gives thumbs up)
(pause)
Woman: (turns to her husband) You do it!
Justified when Kim was giving birth to JD's son. At the moment she was under some emotional turmoil and stress like the fact JD doesn't trust her ( she lied about having a miscarriage), he's only with her for the child, all of JD's friends treat her badly and she's worried about raising the child alone. The straw that breaks the camel's back is while she's (painfully) pushing the baby out, she asks if JD will ever forgive her. He says "No." and... well you can guess what happens next.
Psych averts this rather well in "Shawn vs. the Red Phantom," when Chief Vick goes into labor. It takes the entire episode (at least a day) for Vick to have the baby, and while she sweats and groans a lot, there's no screaming and she does so while on a tilted table. Lassiter comically DOES faint, although he claims he was just resting his eyes and fell over slightly.
Played straight when Marlowe Lassiter goes into labor "Shawn and Gus Truck Things Up" in Season 8. They drive her to the hospital in a food truck.
Coupling devotes an entire episode to Steve's horror at Susan planning to give birth without an epidural. Being practical, she's already realised that she's probably going to change her mind when it actually happens, and says it's Steve's job to decide if she really wants the drugs or not. In the event, he decides she does.
(after Susan has told Steve to ask her three times if she wants an epidural)
(cut to: Steve flying out the maternity ward doors backwards and ramming into the corridor wall)
Midwife: She said, "You can't."
Steve: Yeah, trust me, the word wasn't "can't."
Happened in Smallville. The Baby wasn't so much "born" as it was "completely evaporated the mother and the car she was in".
Subverted in the end of Threads, with Jane giving birth (with the expected screaming), but then no crying from the baby, for it seems to be stillborn (we never really see). Jane's reaction of screaming when she sees the baby suggests that it has some deformity, no doubt caused by all the radiation going around as a result of World War III.
The Steven Spielberg mini-series Into The West has Jacob Wheeler's Sioux wife giving birth to their youngest child while they're briefly living with his parents; one of Jacob's cousins is surprised by her stoicism, saying that "She didn't cry out. Not once!", which leads to a rather racist comment by another cousin who believes that the Indians "don't feel pain. At least not like we do." Ironically, this cousin is later kidnapped by and married off to an Indian; when she eventually goes native and willingly becomes his wife, the birth of their child is shown immediately after it happened, with the implication that she didn't scream either.
Roseanne averted this almost entirely. Jackie's labor was long enough for them to drive home from the diner, sit around for a while, go to the hospital and sit around for a while, and then she even took an epidural. They did play it straight, however, in the flashbacks to Roseanne delivering Becky and DJ, where Roseanne is screaming and hollering at Dan to never touch her again.
Firefly has an example in "Heart of Gold" when a pregnant prostitute gives birth. There is much screaming, due to a) giving birth, b) the child's father turning up to kidnap him, and c) the ongoing gun fight between the father's posse and the whorehouse's residents backed up by Serenity's crew.
Giving birth turned up every so often in ER, but one notable example had the panting mother wheeling through the building with her husband and Doctor Kovacs.
Kovacs: Do you want an epidural?
Husband: No, we want a natural birth, don't we, honey?
Wife: [bats husband aside, grabs Kovacs' shirt] Give me drugs!
The Steve Harvey Show employs this trope when Regina's sorority sister Tiffany gives birth during a visit to Chicago. A huge snowstorm hits the city trapping Tiffany, her husband, Regina, and Cedric (posing as Steve who was posing as Regina's husband AND posing as an OB-GYN)in Regina's apartment. Hilarity Ensues.
Hilarity Ensues on Mama's Family when Naomi has one of these. It results in a Panicky Expectant Father.
On Drive, Wendy Patrakas was introduced in the middle of one.
The Office (US): Pam, when she gives birth in the season six episode, The Delivery.
Partially averted in The Secret Life of the American Teenager - while Amy does a lot of screaming for the two previous episodes, the actual birth is skipped.
Happens in the season 1 finale of Glee when Quinn gives birth, while their rivals, Vocal Adrenaline, perform "Bohemian Rhapsody" by Queen. It's a very intense scene, though it does make you wonder about the timeframe, since she goes from her water breaking to giving birth within the span of five minutes. Seven if we count the commercial break.
This happens in the Christmas Episode of Misfits, where Marnie's waters break, and she is forced to give birth in the community centre - with much screaming and swearing - as the paramedics don't arrive on time (although it is mentioned that they've called the ambulance numerous times, so exactly how long they'd been waiting there is unclear). Afterwards, calm resumes, and the gang even sing a Christmas carol to the suspiciously large newborn baby. The pleasant mood is then completely shattered by the emergence of the afterbirth, which Nathan mistakes for an evil alien baby that needs to die. He starts screaming (even more than Marnie did while she was giving birth) and frantically stamping on it, splattering the horrified gathered company in copious amounts of blood.
Fringe does this in Season one. Justified in that she wasn't even pregnant half an hour before giving birth and it actually ended up snapping her spine Nessie style. Averted with Fauxlivia.
In the Millennium episode "In Arcadia Ego".
Happened with Scully on The X-Files, though she's less screaming from pain and more screaming at the uninvited Super Soldiers not to take her baby.
In Up All Night, Reagen is adamant about following a birth plan, and after trying to push unsuccessfully for a while, she tries to intimidate the doctor after he wants to do a C-section
The birth of Marshall and Lily's baby on How I Met Your Mother had one of these, probably partly due to the fact that Eriksen babies are notoriously huge, while Lily is...well, played by Alyson Hannigan. Comes complete with Lily's eccentric foreign Doctor screaming abuse at her to make her keep pushing and a sweat-drenched Lily roaring "WHERE THE HELL IS MARSHALL??!!"
Law & Order: Special Victims Unit takes a more realistic approach with Cathy Stabler. She moans while contracting and strains to push the baby out but never screams.
Lindsay on CSI: NY
Stargate Atlantis: Teyla holds it together pretty well (largely because she has to coach Rodney through it) but there's a fair bit of screaming.
Angel: Wesley tries to show pregnant vampire Darla the Lamaze method of breathing, only for Darla to shriek, "I...DON'T...BREATHE!" and knock the entire Fang Gang flying.
Cordy: Well you know what they say — birth, painful.
Wes: Yes, but generally for the mother, not the bystanders.
Happens when Janet gives birth to Ollie in My Hero:
Janet: AAAAHHH! What have you done to me, you stupid git?!
George: Janet, we're in a church!
Janet: I don't care if we're in the sodding Sistine Chapel! AAAAHHH!!
In The Golden Girls, Blanche's daughter Rebecca has a natural childbirth, which makes it understandably more painful (Blanche comments, "Honey, I know I told you where babies come from, did I ever mention where they come out?"). However, then they go and visit a birthing center as a possibility, one happens offscreen.
Happens all the time in Call the Midwife, of course. We are dealing with the era before painkillers and anaesthetics became common in obstetric practice; the first arrival of nitrous oxide as a pain reliever comes in Series 2 (1958) and is heralded as a great advance, and there isn't enough of the stuff to go 'round. Thus the rare occasion when it is averted (without the nitrous) all the more profound.
One particularly disturbing, unusually high-pitched scream comes right after the doctor has to widen the birth canal with scissors and no anesthetic. There's a Reaction Shot of the husband in another room, horrified.
Mostly averted on Only Fools and Horses. Despite having a detailed birth episode for the arrival of Damien, the portrayal is pretty realistic- Raquel yells a few times but doesn't scream, and it's made very clear that they're in the birth suite for several hours before he arrives. Joan's birth, more than ten years later, is off camera and by caesarean.
Averted on The 100: Octavia's mother gives birth to her without assistance and presumably without medication, but she barely even pants during the process, let alone scream. A necessary aversion, since the Ark's Population Control laws make Octavia's birth illegal; if her mother had screamed during delivery, people would have found out about her pregnancy, and both she and Octavia would have been executed.
Several times on Emergency!. Justified in that as paramedics they don't get called in unless there are already situational factors to make the birth problematic— the standout example being in first-season episode "Brushfire", where there's a wildfire approaching the house and the baby is so close to being born that they can't get the mother out.
In The Librarians (2007), Christine goes to absurd lengths to avoid this, but the Rule of Funny intervenes.
Played for Laughs in Stargate Universe where when we learn what happened to the Destiny crew sent back in time we get a montage of screaming births.
Reba has two of them, both of which happen in the first season.
Barbra Jean, whom Brock divorced Reba for after his extramarital affair with her ended up getting her pregnant.
Barbra Jean: I... need... DRUGS!!
Cheyenne, who got pregnant after Van had sex with her, goes through this at the end of the first season.
Cheyenne: I want my mommy!
Discussed in Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, when Daryl wonders why Heather isn't screaming in pain before she gives birth like women on television. Heather mentions that she had the sense to ask for all the drugs.
In Muhtesem Yuzyil, Hurrem is already a screamer in general, so all of her six births are very loud.
Beautifully averted in Brazilian soap opera Novo Mundo, with a surprising amount of Truth in Television. Seeing how scared Anna is of potentially dying while giving birth, Joaquim instructs her to do so the way he's seen native women do, placing her on the ground in a squatting position and calming her down by telling her that what she's feeling isn't pain, just her body accommodating itself to let the baby out. With this in mind, Anna relaxes and gives birth to her baby girl. The full scene can be found here.
While it isn't shown on screen, in the episode of NCIS where Palmer's daughter is born, his wife Breena turned out to be resistant to the epidural medicine, and so had to deal with the birthing pains by squeezing her husband's hand. When the team shows up in the maternity ward to visit after solving the week's case, Palmer has two broken fingers. This trope did not come into play when McGee's kids are born, as the only real complication with his wife's delivery was the fact that a wounded terrorist had taken a different wing of the hospital hostage.
McClennan goes through one in the final episode of series 2 of Get Krack!n, which the producer attempts to broadcast live on air.
Bones: All three women who give birth-Brennan, Daisy and Angela. Daisy is possibly the best one. She plans on a new age style birth with no drugs, but abruptly changes her mind
Daisy: I don’t want darkness! I don’t want candles! I want shiny machines that go “beep!” I WANT AN EPIDURAL!
Charité at War: Anni screams on top of her lungs when she gives birth to her daughter — justified since she has a partial placenta praevia that hinders the baby from going into the birth canal smoothly, and the responsible doctor exerts massive pressure on her womb to help it out.
On Schitt's Creek Jocelyn goes into screaming labor, but Moira manages to still make it all about herself to the point where Jocelyn drives them to the hospital.
Occurs at least Once per Episode on TLC's Maternity Ward.
    Mythology & Religion 
The Bible:
Right in Genesis chapter 3, after Adam and Eve have committed the first sin together, God cursed the woman (and by extension, all women after her) with bearing children in pain, implying that this was going to happen.
In Revelation chapter 12, according to the NET Bible translation, John saw the woman clothed with the sun, that "she was pregnant and was screaming in labor pains, struggling to give birth." (from Revelation 12:2)
    Theater 
In Street Scene, Mrs. Buchanan is never seen, but her blood-curdling screams can be heard as she gives birth at home.
One of Kristina's many births happens on-stage in Kristina from Duvemåla, and while the scene mostly focus on conversations between her husband and her best friend, who acts as midwife, the actress playing Kristina gets to do a fair share of screaming.
Owners: Averted. When Lisa goes into labour, the script specifically says she breathes heavily and is visibly in pain, but she does not scream.
    Video Games 
In the F.3.A.R trailer, we get to see Alma Wade giving birth. This goes as you expect: She's screaming in agony, medics around her freaked out, objects trembling thanks to her power, complete with her flinging the doctors around and the baby CLAWING ITS WAY THROUGH HER STOMACH!
The Guardian enemy in Dead Space. It constantly lets out an agonized wail, and spawns little turret necromorphs through a hole in it's stomach. It's screaming goes up an octave when a pod is spawned.
Tales of Graces: The birth of Carl and Fermat's baby. Like the Fullmetal Alchemist example above the people in the room are fairly young (18 for Asbel and Cheria, 22 for Pascal and possibly Fermat and Carl), don't understand the gravity of what's happening (Sophie), are panicking and since it's Fermat's first child, it's the perfect recipe for this trope.
The Shadowbringers expansion of Final Fantasy XIV has a chain of side quests where you have to assist in the preparation of the Ondo's (fish people) Clutchmother's birthing process. When the time comes for her to deliver, she lets out a huge scream mixed in with swearing.
    Web Comics 
The Law of Purple: Gypsy gives birth off-screen, so it's unknown whether she has a genuine Screaming Birth, but when her contractions start she immediately announces this fact to her husband (and the three other men in the room with him) by bursting in and screaming "I'M GOING INTO LABOR!!".
Neatly subverted with Harley's sister in Boy Meets Boy.
The Boss's delivery of her baby in The Last Days of FOXHOUND was difficult, yet she not only managed to keep fairly quiet and calm but... well, go read it yourself. Of course, The Boss was exceptionally badass even by the standards of the comic.
Drowtales:
The sidestory "Spiderborn" features Mel'arnach going into labor and giving at least one very loud scream that can be heard outside the room (likely at the crowning stage), but the rest of the delivery apparently went over smoothly, though she was severely weakened afterward. Justified in that she was scared out of her wits, had never given birth before, and knew the child was likely to either not be normal or be taken away from her soon after, and in the case of the first situation both of them would probably be killed. Drow in general have an easy time giving birth, and as a result often have dozens of children.
In the main story Shinae is first reintroduced after the timeskip undergoing one of these, which turns out to be entirely justified since the baby was somehow corrupted by her taint in the womb and born horribly mutated, including being covered in spikes. Ow.
Sabrina Online: In late 1999, Sabrina's friend Amy went through one of these, bringing a new character to the strip: http://sabrina-online.com/1999-04.html
Sabrina herself goes through this, or at least the "inflict bodily harm on the father" part in part 2 of the "Baby Steps" arc.
Sarine's Catapult Nightmare in Errant Story is both one non-stop birth scream, and a flashback to something that actually happened to her 2000 years earlier.
    Web Original 
There is no GATE; we did not fight there: The interlude *Protector's Pride* focuses on the birth of Kyte's younger twin siblings, Adrastus and Aella. In the many hours it takes, Adrianna is noted to only stop screaming and cursing at the very end of her labor.
Kytheus: What's going on?! Why is mom screaming? Is she hurt?
Kell: It hurts, when a woman gives birth. Rennea and the midwives are taking care of her. The only thing we can do is wai—
Adrianna: KELL, YOU SON OF A SYPHILIS INFESTED WHORE! I'M GOING TO SODOMIZE YOU WITH SKYPIERCER FOR THIS!
Kell: All we can do is wait. *nods at his own words*
The Weather: One skit features a pregnant woman (played by Alan) in the midst of giving birth, and shrieking all the way. The doctor and baby are also screaming.
In the Sam & Mickey episode "Delivery", Yasmin (of course) has a screaming labor and delivery, not in any way helped by her lack of pain medicine or by the family, especially Barbie and even the nurse caring for her, started singing a "push playlist" to encourage/annoy her, including "Push it", "Born This Way" and "Baby".
    Western Animation 
In the Hey Arnold! episode "The Journal", Arnold's mother Stella is forced to have her son in an abandoned San Lorenzo temple while lava from a nearby erupting volcano flows past. Taking all this into account - not to mention the pain she must be enduring having natural childbirth to someone with Arnold's unusually shaped head - she has no problem showing her displeasure at her situation when her husband Miles tries to help her with her Lamaze breathing.
Miles: Remember, breathe, breathe - just like in class - whoo, whoo-
Stella: (lunging at Miles) Shut up! Shut Up! SHUT UP!!!
Which is followed by a pretty intense scene with Stella screaming off-screen while their friend Eduardo witnesses the destruction caused by the volcano eruption, which actually seems to be triggered by the screaming. Everything calms down once Arnold is born.
Averted similarly to how it was in ElfQuest in Avatar: The Last Airbender. The timing is inconvenient, and Sokka still plays the part of panicked guy that passes out, but the mother is shown laying down at a 45-degree angle, with her family holding her hands, and goes for heavy panting rather than screaming. It's seen as so beautiful that it gets the hero out of a Heroic BSoD he was going through for the majority of the episode.
In The Rugrats Movie, Didi screams just before giving birth to Dil, and for some reason the camera goes into her mouth, shows a strange montage of the history of the universe, and comes out of her alongside Dil opening his eyes for the first time.
King of the Hill:
Luann screams all the way to the hospital before her husband's sister insisted that she give birth in a medical center with everyone watching, the Hills had to sneak her out.
Happened to Didi just before giving birth to Good Hank combined with Hank and Peggy's skydiving moment.
In Home Movies, Brendan's step-mother is giving birth and screaming and insulting at everyone in vicinity, including him. The hilarious part is that he takes the screaming at face value and yells and insults back at her.
Lois's sister Carol on Family Guy, minus the "YOU DID THIS TO ME!" and with a series of guttural moans rather than screams. Ironically, the doctor passes out during the delivery, but only because he stuck his hand repeatedly into a bin of used needles while looking for gloves.
Hilariously/nightmarishly implied on The Simpsons in an episode that reenacts various Tall Tales (American folklore). In the vignette with Homer as Paul Bunyan, Abe (normal-sized) goes back in the cabin after the birth of his son, who takes up the entire living room. He runs into the bedroom and asks his (also normal-sized) wife how the birth went. She's in shock and weakly mutters "Whiskey... please..."
In The Flintstones special Hollyrock-a-Bye Baby (set in the future with Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm as a married couple expecting their first child) this happens to Pebbles as she's giving birth to her twins (at least the first one; the second is born in about five seconds without any screaming heard while Fred gloats over the first baby being a boy. This was the first animated work (at least in the U.S.) to show a birth on-screen.
In an Adventure Time episode, Finn and Jake encounter a married couple of giant spiders named Ed and Barb. By the end of the episode, the latter experiences one of these, giving birth to millions of babies.
The High Priestess of Aku undergoes one in the premier of Samurai Jack Season 5 when delivering the septuplets who will become the Daughters of Aku. Not only does she survive, she walks it off and has enough energy left over to deliver a sermon in praise to Aku.
In the episode of We Bare Bears, "Yard Sale", Annie screamed twice when she went into labor.
In the episode of Justice League Unlimited, "The Greatest Story Never Told", Booster Gold, a hero from the distant future looking for fame for his heroism, comes across a pregnant woman in labor, who was alone in an ambulance because of the paramedics being sucked into a black hole. The pregnant woman screamed real loud when Booster was trying to help her.
In Pepper Ann, Pepper Ann's mother, Lydia, screamed when she was in labor with her youngest daughter, Margaret Rose "Moose" Pearson, in the episode "The Way They Were".
Karen Beecher, A.K.A. Bumblebee, was screaming when giving birth to her daughter, Rhea, in theYoung Justice episode "Unknown Factors". Her husband, Malcolm, was saying if she hurried, Rhea will be born on Martin Luther King jr. Day, which caused Karen to yell at him for telling her to hurry.
Jay Sherman's adoptive mother, Eleanor Sherman, from The Critic, was in labor with her daughter, Margo, and she was yelling and screaming at her drunken husband, Franklin, threatening to get back at him for getting her pregnant in the episode "Every Doris Has Her Day".

Playing With / Screaming Birth
Basic Trope: A pregnant woman gives birth in a dramatic fashion, complete with screaming.

Straight: After a mad rush to the hospital when her water breaks, Alice gives birth while screaming in pain.
Exaggerated: Alice gives birth while screaming death threats not only at Bob, who impregnated her, but Carl the doctor delivering her baby and by extension every man who ever existed. Her labour pains are broadcast throughout the entire hospital in bloodcurdling detail, convincing several people that someone is being horrifically murdered. Bob faints from sheer horror at what is happening during the birth. Immediately after the birth, however, Alice is perfectly serene and transfixed by her beautiful baby.
Downplayed: Alice screams a few times, but her birth is generally punctuated by grunting and moaning.
Justified:
There are complications on top of it being Alice's first child and on top of that she tenses up in anticipation.
Alice is giving birth without any kind of drugs or painkillers.
Inverted:
Alice gives birth in a warm pool of water making her serene when she gives birth.
Alice is drugged or drunk when she gives birth and barely notices what is happening.
Alice's birth appears to be quick and painless so she's said to be Out Giving Birth, Back in Two Minutes.
Alice bears through the birth with Nerves of Steel while Bob does all the screaming.
Clean, Pretty Childbirth
While not quick, Alice's birth is painless.
Subverted:
After a tense, pressured ride to the hospital, Alice appears quite stressed out... but is given an epidural and gives birth in a relatively tranquil fashion.
The screams are not Alice's but of Bob's jealous ex Claire, who is pissed at Alice birthing Bob's child.
The screams are not Alice's; the attendant doctor is a fan of Primal Scream therapy and is just warming up before the big moment.
Double Subverted:
The epidural doesn't quite work; as soon as the baby starts to come out, the screaming begins.
But Alice starts screaming when she goes into active labour and everyone blocks their ears as now Alice and Claire are screaming.
By the time Bob shows up, the doctor has talked Alice around to Primal Scream, too, and it turns out to be very cathartic.
Parodied: Alice's birth screams are so violent and dramatic she trashes the ward and injures all the medical staff, all while lying in the bed.
Zig Zagged: Alice is given drugs, but they result in mood swings — one moment she's dreamily rambling on about nothing in particular as she's giving birth, the next the pain kicks in and she's screaming her head off threatening revenge on the entire male gender. But then, when she's actually giving birth, she's relatively calm and focused.
Averted: Alice's labour is treated in a realistically natural fashion.
Enforced: The writers have uncomfortable memories of what happened when they or their wives gave birth, and have exaggerated them for comic effect.
Lampshaded: "My God! This is the loudest birth I've ever experienced!
Invoked: Alice's labour is deliberately sabotaged in order to make the experience as uncomfortable and painful for her as possible.
Exploited: Alice is screaming and in labour while on a mission with her friends, and so her friends pretend she's severely injured to get access to something they need.
Defied:
Alice is given a sufficient amount of drugs to help with the pain and is positioned in a fashion to help with the birth while still ensuring her comfort as much as possible.
Alice belongs to Scientology.
Or, Alice opted not to be given drugs, but is Made of Iron.
Discussed: "I remember when Alice give birth. It was... difficult to watch."
Conversed: "Okay, when I give birth, I'm getting drugs. Lots of drugs."
Implied:
Everyone is nervous when Alice announces her second pregnancy, saying things like, "Remember last time? Remind me to stay out of the delivery room this time."
Loud screaming is heard coming from a maternity ward.
Deconstructed: Alice's labour is induced by giving her Pitocin, thus forcing her body into giving birth as fast and as hard as possible so she does actually feel like her body is being ripped open.
Reconstructed: Alice is dreading the birth after hearing so many horror stories. She does research, contacts a good doctor or midwife, and arranges for the safest, most comfortable birth possible. The initial labor scares her, but her well-laid plans give her comfort, as well as encouraging words from Bob and her friends. The labor pains are bad; she's reduced to grunts and moans. But when it's done and Alice holds her baby, the joy, relief, and adrenaline provokes her to laugh spontaneously.
Played For Laughs: Alice's Screaming Birth is just the cap on a slapstick comedy of errors which has surrounded this entire birth.
Played For Drama:
Alice is screaming because something is wrong and the doctor/midwife needs to figure out what before the mother and/or the baby die during the difficult birth.
During her labour pains, Alice says some things to Bob which she didn't intend to say but can't easily take back. Bob is hurt and upset by her words, and after the birth Alice feels guilty but also feels that under the stressful circumstances at the time she should be given a pass for what she said. This creates tension between the two which lasts for some time.

Quotes / Screaming Birth
...the tiny guy baby is still emerging from the mother, and the doctor tells her that it's a boy, and she, in a classic expression of maternal joy, responds, "ARGGHHHHHHHH." She is not feeling so great, because the baby is not that tiny, compared with the orifice it is emerging from.
— Dave Barry's Complete Guide to Guys
"Now let's see here..." Dr. Andrew muttered as he tried to measure how far along she was. "Holy shit! You're ready! Have you been feeling little pains for the whole day?"
"Yes! Now get it out of me before kill the both of you, and turn your hides into my own personal pajamas!" She shouted as she squeezed Warden's hand so tight it turned purple.
"Don't worry about that, Warden." Dr. Andrew told the pale groom. "They all say that."
Warden nodded his understanding, but was still worried. He knew Mistress could and would turn him into pajamas if she wanted to. Not all women had her abilities.
"Mistress, I want you to push on three. Got it?" Dr. Andrew asked his new patient. She nodded and he started the count.
"1, 2, 3, PUSH!" He shouted. Mistress screamed as she pushed with all her might.
"Good! I can see the head! Give me another big one! PUSH!" The doctor yelled. After this process, crying filled the room. Dr. Andrew snipped the cord and wrapped the child in a blanket.
— Extended Stay, Chapter 13
"And at the next contraction, my wife told everyone in the delivery room that my parents were never married!"
—Bill Cosby, Himself
In those days, [...], a visit to the delivery rooms in any large American hospital would have sounded to you like a visit to a madhouse. Women weeping wildly, women screaming that they wished they were dead, women screaming that they could not bear such agony, women screaming for Christ to forgive them their sins, women screaming out strings of curses and gutter-words their husbands and fathers never would have believed they knew. All of this was quite the accepted thing, in spite of the fact that most of the world's women give birth in almost complete silence, aside from the grunting sounds of strain that we would associate with any piece of hard physical labour. Doctors were responsible for some of this hysteria, I'm sorry to say. The stories the pregnant woman heard from friends and relatives who had already been through the birthing process also contributed to it. Believe me: if you are told that some experience is going to hurt, it will hurt. Most pain is in the mind, and when a woman absorbs the idea that the act of giving birth is excruciatingly painful - when she gets this information from her mother, her sisters, her married friends, and her physician - that woman has been mentally prepared to feel great agony.
—Emlyn McCarron on childbirth in the 1930s, The Breathing Method
Doctor: "Push, ensign!"
Ensign Samantha Wildman: "You push, dammit, I'm sick of pushing!!"
—Star Trek: Voyager, "Deadlock"

Wacky Parent, Serious Child
"My father, ladies and gentlemen."
— Peter Bishop, Fringe
A pair that consists of a silly, carefree or simply lighthearted parent and a child who is down to earth, snarky, brooding or all three. Usually parent and child will be of the same gender (so a wacky father with a brooding son or a ditzy mother with a serious daughter). In addition, the parent will often be utterly embarrassing (sometimes only to the child, though). Expect Awkward Father-Son Bonding Activity to pop out, which will usually end with an Aw, Look! They Really Do Love Each Other moment. Can sometimes be played for drama and show how utterly messed up it is when the younger person has to be the more mature one.
Subtrope to Like Father, Unlike Son. Undoubtedly Truth in Television. You might have Wacky Parents yourself or Serious Children of your own.
Examples:
    open/close all folders 
    Anime & Manga 
Bleach: Ichigo and Karin compared to their Amazingly Embarrassing father, Dr. Isshin Kurosaki. Unless Isshin drops his Obfuscating Stupidity facade, yeah.
In Dagashi Kashi, we have the son Kokonotsu and his eccentric father, You.
Detective Conan:
Bumbling Dad Kogoro and his Cute Bruiser daughter Ran.
Shinichi is also less than impressed by the wacky antics of his novelist dad and former-actress mother, both of whom, among other things, left their teenage son living alone while they went on a trip to America for several years.
Dragon Ball:
Goku (Wacky Parent) to Gohan (Serious Child). Although they both share their goofy moments and are nice guys, Gohan is shown to be more serious, intelligent and mature than Goku. Justified as Gohan was given an education at a young age thanks to Chi-Chi, while Goku wasn't introduced to society until he was a young teenager.
Similarly, Mr. Satan (Wacky Parent) to Videl (Serious Child). Satan acts very boastful, over-the-top, and silly, while Videl spends most of the series being laid-back and serious when the situations call for it.
FLCL. Naota Nandaba is fairly normal (at least for a child in anime) but his father Kamon is extremely immature, suffers emotional mood swings and exhibits inappropriate sexual behavior.
Food Wars!: Akira Hayama has this dynamic with his legal guardian, Jun Shiomi. Even though she's 34 years old, she looks like a middle-schooler and even acts like one most of the time, to the point he is the one who seems to be looking after her, including doing the chores of running their seminar when she neglects them.
From what little we see of her in If My Favorite Pop Idol Made It to the Budokan, I Would Die, Sakiko's straight-lanced and grounded nature acts as an inversion to this trope due to her daughter, Eripoyo, being much more ridiculously dramatic and generally goofy than her.
In Kyo Kara Maoh!, all three of Lady Celi's sons are serious in comparison to her, although Gwendal, the eldest, takes the cake on stoicism. This is mostly Played for Laughs, except when it isn't: being on an eternal quest for free love is an amusing quirk as a woman with adult children, but it's sometimes shown that this behavior had a not-always-positive effect on her sons when they were growing up, and her irresponsibility played a factor in the tragedy of the Lutenberg Division twenty years ago.
Lyrical Nanoha:
Chrono Harlaown was by far the most stoic character in Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha. His mom Lindy, on the other hand, skirts it very close to a Bunny Ears Admiral.
Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha INNOCENT shows that, had certain unpleasant events not happened, Precia would have been an Amazingly Embarassing Doting Parent. Her second daughter Fate, however, would have still been the same serious and responsible, if a bit shy, little girl.
Masamune-kun's Revenge: Taken Up to Eleven with Masamune and his mother Kinue; the latter is ridiculously childlike in appearance and mannerisms for a 42-year-old, and has a habit of adding too much sugar and/or fats into her dishes (which her son Masamune blames for his past obesity).
Michiko & Hatchin: Michiko Malandro and Hana Morenos, although they aren't biologically related; nine-year-old Hana is much more thoughtful and less gullible than the loud, Hot-Blooded, easily-distracted Michiko.
One Piece:
From what's been seen of Gold Roger, he is a man much like Luffy. However, Ace, his child, was serious and downright mean growing up. Since he wasn't raised by his father, and grew up hearing some unpleasant comments involving such matters, it isn't very surprising. As an adult though, Ace is calm and collected, yet still like his old man in sharing a love of partying and having short tempers when it comes to folk messing with their loved ones. Not to mention, Ace's tendency of narcolepsy.
Inverted with Monkey D. Luffy, the goofy protagonist and his mysterious and serious father, Revolutionary Leader Monkey D. Dragon.
Played straight with Luffy's father and grandfather, Monkey D. Garp, who appears to act like an older version of Luffy.
Haruhi Fujioka in Ouran High School Host Club is the most reliable and level-headed character in the show. Her father Ryouji, a.k.a. Ranka, is a flaming Drag Queen with emotional issues.
Sailor Moon: Though Chibiusa is technically Usagi's child from the 30th Century, she and Usagi qualify to a certain extent. Usagi is a lot goofier than Chibiusa, who is sometimes more serious than Usagi. Justified since Usagi is a teenager and Chibiusa, while a child in mind and body, is over 900 years old.
Soul Eater:
The Cloudcuckoolander Shinigami and his serious, Super OCD son Death the Kid. However, Shinigami-sama's goofball moments are the result of him adapting a jollier personality since his grim and serious demeanor from centuries ago wasn't exactly the best for being in charge of a school; he still knows when to be deathly serious. Also, Kid's Super OCD moments give Kid moments of his own comical style.
Maka Albarn is a down-to-earth young woman who often acts like Only Sane Man with her friends, compared to her goofy and somewhat perverted father, Spirit. Despite this, Spirit often has his serious side and Maka still has her eccentricites and is still a normal teenage girl.
In Space Patrol Luluco, the title character has a warm relationship with her father, even though she wants to be normal and he's a member of the Space Police. Her mom, meanwhile, left and is the awesomely psychotic Space Pirate Queen.
Toradora!: Ryuuji is the Serious Child to his mom Yasuko's Wacky Parent. He cook and cleans the house, since Yasuko works late at a bar, and therefore she's a bit drowsy and odd during daytime. Also, she was 16 when she had him.
Witchblade: Masane and her daughter Rihoko are this to a fault. Masane is a free spirit who enjoys staying up all night drinking with the other tenants of their apartment building, while Rihoko is so ridiculously mature for her age (six) that she does all the shopping, cooking, and even has to put her mother to bed when she drinks too much, talking down to her in an exasperated way while she does.
    Comic Books 
The adult comic Viz includes the comic strip "The Modern Parents" by John Fardell. It is the satire of an extremist "green"/New Age couple and their antics, while their young son is the Only Sane Man.
Kingdom Come's semi-sequel The Kingdom featured Plastic Man and Offspring, respectively, in these roles. Plastic Man is Fun Personified and can't stay out of his son's life; Offspring is comparatively humorless and doesn't appreciate his father's meddling.
    Fan Works 
This facet of Chrono and Lindy's relationship is played up considerably in Infinity.
Chrono: Isn't it supposed to be that the child gives the parent grey hairs?
While Daria had some of this already, God Save the Esteem cranks it up, because in this Alternate Universe Fic, Helen and Jake (and Quinn) are all The Quincy Punk while Daria is still more-or-less her canon self.
Jake: Gahdamnit Daria, your mother just suggested you get a piercing—suggested!
Endeavour, of all people, is the wacky parent to (mainly) Shoto's serious child in Such a doting father. In this fic, Endeavor is a Happily Married Doting Parent who won't even hesitate to show off pictures of his family to the criminals he just just captured, while the rest of his family, who do genuinely love him, get annoyed very often with his antics.
In My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic fan work, Pinkie Pie's grandmother, Granny Pie, is most commonly portrayed as being playful and fun-loving, much like Pinkie herself, as opposed to her son/Pinkie's father, Clyde Pienote  / Igneous Rock Pienote , who is serious, stern and dour. Some examples of this portrayal include the fanfic Families and the webcomic The Story of Granny Pie.
    Films — Animated 
The current page image comes from A Goofy Movie, in which Max is trying to be normal teenage boy, while his father is, well, Goofy.
In Meet the Robinsons, Lewis with Bud and Lucille, who adopt him at the end. Wilbur and Franny are a much milder example: he's always a little goofy while she jumps around from serious to very wacky.
    Films — Live-Action 
In the Halloweentown films, Grandma Aggie is a proud, whimsical witch while her daughter, Gwen, married a Muggle and continues to live a "normal" life even after his death. Both of Gwen's daughters take after Aggie, though her son Does Not Like Magic more than her. He does ease up on that and goes to magic university when older.
Aggie: Oh, being normal is vastly overrated.
In Anywhere but Here, Susan Sarandon plays the free-spirited Adele who wants her daughter to become an actress. Natalie Portman is Ann, the much more level-headed daughter who dreams of attending an Ivy League university - and getting as far away from her irresponsible mother as possible.
Me and Earl and the Dying Girl: Greg's dad, who hangs around the house in a kimono eating cuttlefish and talking to his cat is definitely this compared to Greg, who is slightly quirky at most. A more serious example is Rachel's mom, who starts drinking heavily after her daughter's diagnosis, and Rachel, who takes it more calmly.
Sky High (2005): The Mad Scientist villain explains that they were raised by their Villainous Harlequin henchman, Stitches, after a battle with Commander turned them into a baby.
In L'eclisse Vittoria might be at times a Cloudcuckoolander but when with her mother she is the one who is down to earth and speaks as the voice of reason.
    Literature 
Septimus Heap has Bumbling Dad Silas Heap and Only Sane-Boy Septimus Heap.
Twilight: The brooding (very, very brooding) Bella and her mother, Renee, who Bella paints as completely flighty and incapable of taking care of herself without Bella's assistance. (She paints her father, Charlie, in a similar light.)
In How NOT to Become Popular by Jennifer Ziegler, Maggie's parents are quirky, free-thinking hippies who move around every few months, meanwhile Maggie tries her best to be a normal girl.
Jacqueline Wilson frequently deconstructs this trope. One notable example is the relationship between the title character of The Illustrated Mum and her two children. Marigold genuinely cares for both of her daughters, but is highly susceptible to exaggerated mood swings and extreme behaviors, which worry Dolphin, frustrate Star, and present severe negative consequences for the entire family. Dolphin is bullied at her school and has only one friend, because all of her classmates know about Marigold's unusual ways. Micky, Star's father, is implied to find Marigold's wackiness unbearable. Towards the end of the story, Dolphin learns that Marigold suffers from bipolar disorder, and hence has to be temporarily hospitalized.
The Baby-Sitters Club: Dawn and her mother Sharon. Both of them are Granola Girls, but Sharon is known for being a messy and absent-minded Cloudcuckoolander while her daughter is way more mature.
P. G. Wodehouse's Psmith series, in which Psmith and his father are...actually both kind of odd. The difference lies in the fact that Psmith is far more dignified and grounded than his flighty parent, enabling him to manipulate any situation with a professional level of ease.
Halfway Across the Galaxy and Turn Left has this as a major plot element; part of the alien culture native to Zyrgon means that X, who is a 10 year old girl, is officially responsible for managing all the grown-up aspects of life (like paying the bills, telling her parents to go to work, etc), leaving her parents free to goof around and act like kids.
Briefly mentioned in Anansi Boys; In the Babies Ever After epilogue; the protagonist has children of his own. "His name is Marcus: he is four and a half and possesses that deep gravity and seriousness that only small children and mountain gorillas have ever been able to master.”
He, himself, is the serious, dutiful son to his trickster father.
A downplayed example in the Wraith Squadron novel Mercy Kill with Mulus Cheems and his (adopted) son Viull "Scut" Gorsat. Whereas Scut is deathly serious most of the time, driven by an intense desire to prove himself and repay his family's debt to Wraith Squadron (and haunted by lingering Fantastic Racism — his species invaded the galaxy that one time), Mulus is a cheerful elderly professor who shows up to lend his expertise to the men and women who saved him many years before, and is both honored and delighted to make a difference in such a critical operation.
Brulion Bebe B. has Bebe, who is actively trying to be as unlike her Large Ham mother as humanly possible.
The Machineries of Empire has Shuos Jedao and his mother. In Extracurricular Activities, her idea of a birthday present is a tube of goose fat (which he initially mistakes for a bomb, being a spy), and when he and his partner use it as a lubricant (the sex kind, not the mechanics kind), he's horrified to think of what she'd say if she ever found out, only to realize that if she did, she'd probably send him even more of it.
The Birds of Summer is one of Zilpha Keatley Snyder's grimly realistic, even angry YA books from the mid-1970s. Oriole, an irresponsible flower child, neglects her two daughters and floats around in a drugged haze. Fifteen-year-old Summer is the real adult. Her mother's antics nearly get her killed.
Audrey Wood's 1990 children's book Weird Parents involves this trope, but with BOTH of the leading boy's parents being wacky in every way possible. But weird parents or not, they still love each other, and near the end they have a more heartwarming time together. This book received an Animated Adaptation in the first episode of Shelly Duvall's Bedtime Stories on Showtime, read by Bette Midler.
    Live-Action TV 
Absolutely Fabulous featured bumbling, selfish, impulsive, party girl mother Edina and her long-suffering, Only Sane Woman daughter Saffron.
The Amazing Race : Ron & Christina from seasons 12 & 18 fit this trope to a “T”. Christina spent most of her time trying to calm her dad down and stop him from wandering off at the smell of food. She pretty much dragged him around the world in their first season until she ultimately choked on the Final Exam Finale. He was such a nuisance to her that many had hoped she’d compete the second time with her then fiancé, now husband Azaria whom she met on the show. He was much calmer and quite a strong racer with his sister. They only really lost due to circumstances outside their control.
Beverly Hills, 90210: New Age Hippie Iris McKay and her brooding and cynical son Dylan.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Mayor is always cheerful and upbeat, even when planning his Ascension, while Faith, whom he treats like a daughter, is generally brooding and aggressive.
Castle:
Rick Castle and his daughter Alexis. He's a hyperactive manchild played by Nathan Fillion. She's a straight "A" student who is racked with guilt after jumping a subway turnstile to get out of the rain. Although he's a Good Parent whenever it counts.
Castle and his mother Martha are a more complex example. He seems a little more grounded than his flighty, White-Dwarf Starlet mother, but she does feel like part of her job is to bring him back down to earth occasionally.
A female version is provided by Susan Mayer and her daughter Julie in Desperate Housewives (at least, before Julie left Wisteria Lane). Hillariously when Susan's own mother Sophie appears she turns out to be so ditzy (to Brainless Beauty levels) that Susan was apparently the serious child herself when she was younger.
Family Ties was based on this. Alex P. Keaton was a strait-laced Young Republican who was born to two aging hippies.
Psych has an inverted example with serious control freak Henry Spencer and Brilliant, but Lazy Shawn Spencer. Shawn acts like a goofball and has a silly but effective approach to solving crimes, compared to the more methodical way his dad does it.
However, it is subtly implied that Henry and his own father was like this. Both were cops, but Grandfather Spencer certainly seemed more laid-back, wisecracking and jovial when we saw him in Shawn's youth. Outside of chiding Henry for interrupting his bonding time with Shawn and over "if he had to drain the fun out of everything", he advises Shawn to make his own choices, travel the world, meet interesting people and have adventures, something to which the young Shawn took to heart.
Roseanne:
The title character's conservative mother Bev has this relationship with her own mother, Nana Mary, a Cloudcuckoolander who claims to have had affairs with every prominent artist from the 1920s. At one point Mary comments that Bev is really just as much as a rebel as she is, the only difference being that they had different lifestyles to rebel against.
Roseanne herself with her daughter Darlene is a less extreme example. Becky might have counted, too, except usually she was wound a little too tight.
Dan and his mother is a much darker version of it. Dan is naturally a little goofy, but his mother was legitimately insane, having spent several years in a mental institution and attempting to literally kill Dan in one episode.
Blair Sandburg and his mother Naomi in The Sentinel. Naomi can be fairly described as 'the last flower child who hasn't gone to seed,' while Blair—although highly energetic—is finishing his doctorate in Anthropology and working as a consultant for the police.
Lisa and Tia Landry in Sister, Sister. Her long-lost twin sister Tamera and her father have the opposite relationship.
That '70s Show: Mature, smart, independent Donna and her dim-witted parents Bob and Midge.
Gilmore Girls: While Lorelai can handle being a parent when it counts, the show tends to follow this trope. One episode revealed that, while Lorelai was going commando thanks to running out of clean underwear, Rory had been secretly doing her own laundry.
A more cynical variation with Jess and his mother Liz. For most of Jess's childhood Liz was an unstable, unreliable mess, so by the age of 17 Jess is entirely self-sufficient, and pretty bitter and jaded as a result. He also struggles with suddenly having a reliable, sensible parental figure in Luke.
A played with example in Voyagers!. Bogg and Jeff's relationship is odd, but there are hints that it's partially a father/son bond. Bogg is historically ignorant and easily distracted by a pretty face, often needing Jeff to advise him or get him back on track. However, there are cases where it's Jeff who needs Bogg to keep him in line.
On Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, one of the reasons Elliot Stabler has such a massive stick up his ash is because he had to grow up with a mother who was severely bipolar and unpredictable.
Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon: Ikuko and Shingo. In this series, Ikuko became a total Cloudcuckoolander with a wild imagination, even more than Usagi, instead of a wise Education Mama like in the anime. Shingo, though very smart in every series, is now a serious, mature and cynical Only Sane Man.
In Kamen Rider Ex-Aid, the stoic and somewhat cold-hearted Hiiro Kagami is a stark contrast to his goofy and overly-agreeable father, Haima.
Deconstructed in The Good Place with Donna and Doug Shellstrop being the absurdly stupid, irresponsible, and wacky parents to Eleanor's exasperated, self-sufficient serious child in every flashback they appear in. Eleanor also flatly states she's had to take care of herself and the two of them her whole life, which is why she's so determined to emancipate herself. This did a lot of damage to Eleanor's mentality and emotional well-being, and, for instance, caused Eleanor to become primarily concerned with looking out for herself to the point of refusing to engage in any sort of activity that might potentially involve sharing responsibilities with a group.
    Professional Wrestling 
A couple of second generation wrestlers come to mind:
Dusty Rhodes and his son Cody Rhodes
"Cowboy" Bob Orton and Randy Orton
    Video Games 
The eighth season of Criminal Case introduces us to Jean-Philippe Delacroix and his son, Gauthier. The former is the High Commissioner of the Parisian Police Squad who is a Jeff Goldblum knock-off and a party animal who goes out of his way to look for occasions to celebrate so that he can have fun. Gauthier, the Chief of Police, although generally a Nice Guy, is described as a workaholic stickler to the rules.
Final Fantasy:
Final Fantasy VIII: Though they don't know it, Laguna is Squall's father. Squall is brooding, stoic and professional while Laguna is a Bunny-Ears Lawyer who tends to misuse words and in general is a total loon. When Squall first meets Laguna by experiencing his memories in a dream, Squall thinks of Laguna as a moron.
Taken even further in Dissidia Final Fantasy where Laguna and Squall meet, have a few awkward conversations, yet ironically neither ever find out they're related. Would have been even more awkward if they did, since they were brought from their respective timelines as roughly around the same age.
Fire Emblem Awakening:
Nowi is a free-spirited Manakete who acts like a little girl because she likes it. Her half-dragon daughter Nah is far more serious and level-headed. However this is less the case in the Japanese version where Nah(known as Nn) is very childish and frequently uses the word, desu, a speaking style mainly by children.
Laurent, who is basically a male version of his mother Miriel, can be this if fathered by Vaike or Henry.
Fire Emblem Fates:
Hinata, an upbeat and impulsive Hot-Blooded samurai, and his son Hisame, a reserved and cautious guy with a old-fashioned air to him.
Inverted with Takumi and his son, Kiragi. Takumi is wrought with guilt and lack of self-esteem, while Kiragi is a very open and enthusiastic child.
In Fantasy Life:
Daemon is a Nice Guy trying to be a good Dark Sultan and to make friends. His father, the Former Dark Sultan, does a Faking the Dead stunt just to play a prank on the king that the player is serving.
In the blacksmith guild, there's also Vulcan, the master who gets so carried away into praising the job that his daughter and assisstant Fyra ends up doing the actual teaching.
In The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Kodah is a cheerful, jubilant woman who still acts pretty much the way she did when she and Link were kids together. Finley is a solemn, serious young Zora who even talks like an elder Zora to make herself seem more grown up. There's also Granté; his father Robbie is a very silly and bombastic guy, with his mother Jerrin shooting for a similarly energetic persona. Granté himself, on the other hand, is a fairly reserved guy who is also a bit socially awkward.
    Web Animation 
In The Most Popular Girls in School, we have Jayna van Buren and her daughter Mikayla.
Deconstructed with the Blyndeff family in Epithet Erased. Martin is such a goofy and irresponsible Manchild that his daughter Molly has essentially been forced to take over the household, taxes and family business for the past two years. She’s twelve, still in school, and with everything on her plate she gets about five hours of sleep each night.
    Web Comics 
Roommates has Javert and his mother, the bipolar Morgan.
Also in the spin off Superintendent, him and his father Clopin, who is a Lovable Rogue.
Paranatural's Max and his dad to a tee. The reason the family moves to Quirky Town Mayview in the first chapter is because it's the dad's hometown.
Max: Hey, Dad. I've got a question for you.
Dad: Ask ye, mine sweet loinsfruit.
Max: Can you never, ever call me your loinsfruit again? ever?
Ozy and Millie: With Ozy being more or less the Only Sane Man, Llewellyn arguably needs his adopted son just as much as Ozy needs Llewellyn.
True Villains: Bayn is a humourless Evil Sorcerer, while his father Dexter is a Gadfly, and, incidentally, a Prophet and All-Powerful Bystander, though they're both empowered by the same god. Bayn hates his father for antics like Cursing him to have to call him "Dad", and they only mend their bridges in the final chapter.
    Web Video 
In Idiotsitter, this trope is played with. Gene is a total adult child, but her father and stepmother aren't much better. However, while her dad is portrayed as a lousy parent (in one episode, titular Idiotsitter Billie has to coach him through punishing Gene, and he's all over the map), he's also rich and successful, somehow.
In SuperMarioLogan, Cody is the Serious Child to his mother and his stepfather's Wacky Parents.
In I'm a Marvel... and I'm a DC, the Green Goblin is a wacky Harmless Villain who usually winds up helping the heroes. As such, the usual dynamic he has with his son Harry is changed to that of a Cloud Cuckoo Lander bickering with the Only Sane Man.
Harry: AGH! Dad, why are there hyenas in my room?!
Green Goblin: Because that's where Bud and Lou mark their territory! You know how your mother is about these things!
Harry: She's not my mother!
    Western Animation 
On Batman: The Brave and the Bold, Aquaman is a Boisterous Bruiser while his son, Arthur Jr., is a snarky teenager. (Also, still alive for some reason.)
On Danny Phantom, the title character's parents are ghost hunters. When the series began, the existence of ghosts is not yet widely known, with everyone seeing the Fentons as delusional. Even when it's clear to the world that ghosts are real, the pair (especially Jack) are still treated as jokes and can get pretty wacky. And while Danny himself qualifies as being more serious than them most of the time, it's his older sister Jazz who actively goes out of her way to be the Only Sane Woman in the family. As a result, she sometimes comes off pretentious and overbearing, though she mellows as the series goes on.
A variation occurs in Sam's family. While her parents are straight laced suburbanites that look like magazine models from the 1950s', Sam's grandmother, Ida, mother of Sam's father, was a beatnik in her youth, and is more than happy to help Sam get away with stuff her parents don't approve of, like hanging out with Danny and wearing an all black wardrobe.
The Fairly OddParents—Timmy certainly has his own wacky moments, but he's still a lot more serious than his incredibly weird, ditzy parents. Or godfather Cosmo, for that matter.
Played With on Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends—an Imaginary Friend's creator is sometime counted as a "parent," in which case Madame Foster has this sort of relationship with her stuffy Friend, Mr. Harriman. For that matter, she's also the Wacky Grandma to the comparably more serious Frankie.
A variant on Futurama—Gunter is a monkey given artificial intelligence by Professor Farnsworth's technology, and attends Mars University. On Parent's Day, the Professor brings Gunter's mother and father—two normal monkeys—and Gunter is humiliated when they get out of their cage and cause a fiasco.
Goofy and Max Goof in Goof Troop, where Max is a Deadpan Snarker, while his father is a Kindhearted Simpleton nature he has in all media. This is especially the case in A Goofy Movie and its sequel, where a now jaded teenage Max is terrified at the idea of sharing any similarities with his father.
Gravity Falls:
Old Man McGucket and Ranger Tate are a somewhat tragic example. Before becoming the town kook, Fiddleford Hadron McGucket was once a very intelligent computer scientist and engineer. He was called in by Stanford Pines to help create the Portal. However, during its activation, Fiddleford caught a glimpse of what lay on the other side and Bill's plans. Desperate to remove the memories, he invented a mindwiping device and founded the Society of the Blind Eye, to help townspeople forget the disturbing things they saw. Constant abuse of his memory ray ended up causing McGucket serious brain damage and memory loss. Presumably, McGucket was already a dad at the time and one wonders how it was for Tate to see his father descend into madness. By the end of the series, though, Fiddleford is on the road to recovery as he regained his memory and sanity: patenting his inventions to become a very wealthy man, and reconciling with his son. It is implied that Fiddleford did have a few eccentricities before these events, but far more subdued.
Wendy Corduroy. She's the only one with any chill in her family, most notably contrasting against her father, Manly Dan. In one episode, she states that the only reason she became that way was as a coping mechanism to deal with the insanity of her boisterous dad and three brothers.
While a Parental Substitute for the summer rather than an actual parent, Dipper carries shades of this with Grunkle Stan, the former being a studious and serious lad while the latter is a theatrical con man and criminal. Once Ford comes into the mix, the dynamic is mostly averted since they're both fairly serious, but Ford still has a few more eccentricities than Dipper, such as preferring fire to a razor when it comes to shaving.
Robbie Valentino's parents, Greg and Janet, are both cheerful, bubbly, and personable in contrast to their son being a gloomy Emo Teen, with Robbie expressing disapproval of how chipper they are when they're the town's morticians.
On Invader Zim, Dib and Gaz to their father, Professor Membrane. Well...kind of. At the very least they're the closest we have to Only Sane Kids in a world where everyone's crazy, and he's the hammiest in a World of Ham.
Miraculous Ladybug has the Couffaine family. The mother, Anarka, is boisterous, resents law enforcement and has a tendency to Talk Like a Pirate; in contrast, her son Luka is laid-back and her daughter Juleka is rather shy and quiet.
My Dad the Rock Star: The reserved and mild-mannered Willy Zilla is the Serious Child to his Wacky Parents, Hot-Blooded Bumbling Dad/Gene Simmons-lookalike Rock Zilla and New-Age Retro Hippie/Granola Girl mom Crystal Zilla. The fact that Willy's often more mature than either of his parents is lampshaded a few times, but nonetheless, they love each other very much.
Rarity and her parents fall under this pairing in My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic. Rarity is a sophisticated young lady who very much resembles the upper class while her parents are pretty slovenly and laid-back. Granted, Rarity is Not So Above It All since she tends to be a Drama Queen.
Phineas and Ferb has Mad Scientist Dr. Doofenshmirz and his deadpan daughter Vanessa.
The Simpsons have Lisa, a Child Prodigy, compared to Homer, the archetypal dumb sitcom dad. Heck, even Bart is usually portrayed as relatively smarter than him.
Ned Flanders' parents were lazy beatniks who were so inept at raising a child that when he developed behavioral problems at school, they handed him over to a quack therapist who spanked him for one full year. Ned himself is a conservative Christian.
On South Park a running theme is that the kids tend to be a lot smarter than their parents, who usually represent whatever social trend the episode is mocking. However, the best example are Randy and Stan, the former being a Manchild and the latter being the show's biggest Only Sane Man. His mom Sharon, though, is usually portrayed as more serious unless all of the other adults are being crazy too.
In Star vs. the Forces of Evil, this is inverted with Star and her mother Moon. Star Butterfly is an adventurous Genki Girl, in sharp contrast to her prim and proper mother. It's heavily implied Star got it from her father. It later turns out that Moon lost her mother when she was Star's age, meaning she had to grow up quickly to deal with her new responsibilities as Queen, something that gets mirrored later on when Moon disappears at the end of the third season.
Marco also has this relationship with his own parents, Rafael and Angie, who are are free spirits and perpetual High-School Sweethearts compared to their insecure, safety-minded son.
Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race has Dwayne and Junior. Dwayne is a goofy Bumbling Dad and Butt-Monkey who overestimates his own competence and tries way too hard to be cool, while Junior is Wise Beyond His Years and always tries to get his dad to listen to reason.

Playing With / Wacky Parent, Serious Child
Basic Trope: A goofy adult has a serious minded child.

Straight: Bob is a cheerful goofball who likes to joke around and is a bit scatterbrained. His son, Eric on the other hand is more mature and brooding.
Exaggerated: Bob is a Manchild or an Amazingly Embarrassing Parent while Eric is an Emo Teen.
Downplayed: Bob is only slightly more cheerful and fun loving than Eric.
Justified:
Bob's own father was very strict, so he decided that he didn't want to take after him and became a more fun loving parent.
Eric tends to take after his more serious minded mother rather than Bob.
Bob has a developmental disorder that stunts his maturity.
Inverted: Bob is straight laced and serious while Eric is the fun loving one.
Subverted: Bob comes across as a silly, immature, free-spirited person to most, but Bob is a salesman, and his supposed immaturity is actually part of the character he plays to sell himself and other things. In private and with Eric, he is very serious.
Double Subverted: Bob is normally fun-loving and immature while Eric takes things seriously all the time, but when a big problem shows up, Bob puts on a serious face...and realizes he really has no idea how to solve the problem so he defaults to Eric while working to keep his spirit up.
Parodied: Bob's silliness gets to the point where Eric threatens to ground his father if he doesn't stop being a pest.
Averted: Neither Bob nor Eric is particularly more fun loving or serious than the other.
Lampshaded:
"At first I wondered why Eric was so serious for a 14 year old, and then I met you...it's hard to be the clown when you have to run the circus, Mr. Smith."
Alice: "Your dad is very weird, Eric."
Eric: "You have no idea."
Bob and Eric purchase a pair of tickets that have discounts available for children, so one adult and one child ticket. Bob and Eric absent-mindedly reach for the child and adult tickets, respectively, before one of them realizes what they're doing: "Heh, my mind went on autopilot there for a moment."
Zig-Zagged: Bob can be a goofball, but knows when to cut the jokes and get serious when the situation calls for it (i.e. his son is in danger, there's a death in the family, etc.). But as soon as the seriousness of the situation disperses, he's back to all jokes and humor. Eric is usually pretty brooding and mature, but does know when to let loose and act like a kid when it's something he finds fun (i.e. video games, amusement parks, etc.). And once that's over, he's back to being brooding and mature again.
Enforced: Bob's original character template was different, and as a side effect, more mature, but the publisher thought it made him too much a social commentary, so our author had to rewrite Bob into a more fun-loving character.
Defied: Bob was always a free-spirit, but when he sees that his nature is putting too much responsibility on Eric and robbing him of his childhood, Bob works hard to straighten out and be a serious, responsible parent.
Discussed: ???
Conversed: ???
Deconstructed: Because Bob is so immature and ditzy, Eric is forced to be the adult in the house and carry all the weight which made him have to sacrifice having a normal childhood...
Reconstructed: ...but because of that, Eric stands out as a capable leader, thinker, and planner, which employers and schoolteachers take note of and he quickly becomes a favorite over his more childish by comparison rivals. Bob admits his own faults and warns Eric to never be like him, but Eric thanks Bob, telling his father that he wouldn't be the man he is today without Bob.
Played For Laughs: The standard plot structure of the "Why Couldn't You Be Different?" Fantasy-Forbidding Father is played... except that it's the "Fantasy-Forbidding Child". The vision of a five-year-old giving a thirty-year-old the "get you head out of the clouds, Santa doesn't exists, sit down and study!" speech is funny (even in a dark context).
Played for Drama:
Bob is a single dad who's been struggling to make ends meet for his son Eric and himself ever since his wife Alice died. As his son's only role-model, he tries to keep a smile on his face to encourage his son to maintain a positive outlook on life and not be overcome by hopelessness and grief. Eric, however, feels that his father doesn't understand how much he still misses his mother, so he hardens further as a result.
Eric has clinical depression, so his father, Bob, acts silly to try to make him feel better. This, however, only makes Eric's depression worse because he feels like his father is mocking him with his cheerful demeanor.
Or, despite Eric being more serious minded than his father, he has a deep seated fear that one day his father will find him too exhausting to deal with, and will send him away to let him be someone else's problem.

Wild Magic
"Magic can exist on its own, independent of any spell, such as the werelights in the bogs by Aroughs, the dream well in Mani's Caves in the Beor Mountains, and the floating crystal on Eoam. Wild magic such as this is treacherous, unpredictable, and often stronger than any we can cast."
— Oromis, Inheritance Cycle
The underlying magical forces at work in the universe, or at least in this section of it, are, quite literally, alive. And more often than not, they are completely amoral. At best they are whimsical, in a way that would normally be completely harmless. They just want to play. (Speaking of which, the dire wolf over there also just wants to play. We advise you go play with the dire wolf. It's safer, trust us.)
But if you are not so lucky, you may trip over a sentient magical force that wants something. Maybe it's hungry, and wants to eat your soul. Or maybe it's lonely and tries to get you to stay a while. You know, just for a few eternities. Not to be confused with cases where someone either gets lost in the underlying magical fabric of the universe all on their own, or decide they like it there so much there that they're staying.
Casting a spell with this kind of magic is often extremely dangerous. You either have to convince magic to do what you want it to, subdue it in a battle of wills, or accept that you are basically tilting the metaphorical pinball machine of reality. Another danger of using wild magic to cast spells, generally more prominent when using methods 1 or 3, is a Heroic RRoD. New users may also Go Mad from the Revelation.
Particularly powerful Wild Magic may take the form of a Background Magic Field that renders reality unstable. Or, in other words, reality is a Reality Warper. It will frequently mistake your mind for a set of inspirational prompts. Think happy thoughts. Think happy thoughts very, very, hard.
Contrast with Ritual Magic, where the procedures are orderly and strict. Compare and contrast Magic Realism, which on the one hand treats magic as having a life of its own but also makes it subtler and/or weaker. May be a Random Effect Spell in video games.
Examples:
Anime & Manga 
Most magic in Slayers is either rule magic or theurgic, but Lina's Dangerous Forbidden Technique is wild magic. The Giga Slave is a version of a powerful theurgic spell, modified to call upon Chaos itself. As Chaos is both powerful beyond everything, and more than a little chaotic, there's the minor problem that a miscast Giga Slave could destroy the entire world. Or not. The Lord of Nightmares is a very capricious being, and her mind always follows her power, so it really all depends on how she's feeling.
In Hunter × Hunter, Kite's Crazy Slots ability takes the form of a jester-like being that will spin a wheel on its tongue and turn into whatever supernatural weapon corresponds with that number. Crazy Slots has a mind of its own and honestly doesn't care much about Kite's well-being. Crazy Slots is notable for being a case of this trope in a series otherwise full of Magic A Is Magic A, though powers is Hx H become stronger when the user willingly creates limitations, so Kite making it harder to get what he wants also makes his weapons better.
The drops in the anime adaptation of Puzzle & Dragons X act as a Background Magic Field that tends to act strangely whenever a monster is about to appear and start rampaging, though there are also benign examples such as giving a village elder who passed away a sendoff by putting on a light show during his funeral.
    Comic Books 
Reed Richards of the Fantastic Four doesn't like magic for this reason. Doom once trapped Reed by locking him up in a room full of magic tomes that could only be opened with simple apprentice level magic. Reed followed the instructions in the books exactly, and the magic backfired because it turns out magic doesn't like people taking an academic approach to it.
Legends of Baldur's Gate: Delina is a wild mage (as per use in the Forgotten Realms source material), so her magic can have unintended effects. The fact that a spell she was aiming at a gargoyle ended up reviving the statue-ised Minsc instead is one example. So is the fact that Deniak gets turned into a dragon when he was probably just expecting dragon-ish power.
Loki in Loki: Agent of Asgard claimed that magic runs on story and so it has a will of its own. That series leaned on the fourth wall very hard by the way.
    Fan Works 
Child of the Storm occasionally hints that the Background Magic Field (magic being the fifth fundamental force of the universe, and the more of it there is, the more it can affect the other four) is just a little bit alive. This doesn't have much effect, most of the time, but it does lead to the growth of Genius Loci and is the reason why Black Magic twists the user so much - magic doesn't like being twisted like that, and it will twist back.
In The Witch of the Everfree, the Everfree Forest has a haze of magic which scrambles incoming scrying spells, making it an ideal hiding place. However, it also makes it somewhat more difficult to cast spells while inside it, which prevents Sunset from teleporting out of danger as quickly as she would otherwise be able to.
    Films — Animation 
In the My Little Pony: Equestria Girls series, before they receive the magical geodes in Legend of Everfree, the Rainbooms have little control over the magical remnant they received from the Element of Magic in the first movie, and the effects tend to be random. At first they "pony up" when playing music in Rainbow Rocks, but an effort to invoke directly The Power of Friendship falls flat. In Friendship Games the magic manifests when they expresses their respective Element, but they take a while to realize it. Sunset Shimmer's attempt to analyze the magic scientifically in the short "The Science of Magic" results in a power outage, a deluge of apples, a rush of static-charged balloons, or a rainbow-colored splash of goo... and very little progress in comprehension.
    Films — Live-Action 
In The Gamers: Dorkness Rising one of the gamers plays a Wild Mage who in their first battle tries to cast a lightning bolt, but due to a random effect is delayed until the battle is over and it hits the just resurrected bard. Oddly it never happens when he/she is frying NPCs for lulz.
    Literature 
In The Magic Thief, "magics" are quite literally alive, to the point of being able to speak (in certain cases) and have wants. Most magics inhabit cities, providing a general magical aura, and the central conflict of the trilogy is how Wellmet's magic is stretched too thin and is draining away trying to provide for everyone, while the magic of a neighboring city was forced out when the city was abandoned and is so desperately lonely that it's begun attacking the Wellmet magic in hopes of displacing it and taking over. Magics in general seem to enjoy being used and providing for humans, and display signs of stress when they're unable to latch onto a city or other hub of human life.
Enemy Glory: very active in the North Country, where reality seems to be on a constant quest to turn into the most grandiose metaphor for itself that it can come up with.
The Last Unicorn: Schmendrick's quest is to learn to use his magic. He can't make it do a single thing, but he can let it do what it wants ... which has some surprising results. Played particularly and expressly straight when Schmendrick transforms the unicorn into a human woman to protect her from the Red Bull:
Schmendrick: "The Red Bull came for a unicorn, so she had to become something else. The magic chose the shape, not I. I am a bearer, I am a dwelling, I am a messenger..."
Molly Grue: "You are an idiot! Do you hear me? You've lost her! You've trapped her in a human body! She'll go mad!"
Forest Kingdom: oh boy. Not only is it alive. It wants the world as its playground. The first book is about trying to stop it. The second culminates in going into the world where the embodiments of magic live and then going on a killing spree
Greenwitch, the third book in Susan Cooper's The Dark Is Rising series. The Greenwitch is part of the Wild Magic, a force apart from (but equally as powerful as) the Light and the Dark. It's possible for others to control it, but attempting to do so is extremely dangerous.
Discworld - in general, but especially in areas which suffered a direct strike in the Mage Wars, such as that around the Wyrmberg. Generally, the higher the amount of magic in an area, the more likely it has a personality of sorts ... and probably not an especially nice one.
All magic in The Death Gate Cycle draws from the Wave of Possibilities, or Omniwave, which is also the force responsible for maintaining the universal balance. Normally the Wave affects individual spells very little, except to correct small flaws in them so they work, but in order to maintain balance it can cause the most powerful spells to have... interesting (and opposite) side effects. For example, any time someone is raised from the dead by necromancy, somewhere else another person will die untimely.
Harry Potter: Accidental magic works like this. While magical schools teach spell based magic, wizarding children can tap into their own uncontrolled emotions for Reality Warper effects. This wild magic is chaotic, nearly uncontrollable and seemingly much more powerful than spell based witchcraft.
Daine from the The Immortals uses Wild Magic, which could also be called 'animal magic' because it lets her shapeshift and talk with animals. It doesn't quite fit the above description, but it's explained as a genetic ability from her God of Hunters father and overusing it can cause regression to a primitive state of mind, at least until Numair teachers her how to control it. It's specifically called "wild" magic in the books because there is only so much control she can exercise over it.
Circle of Magic gives us academic magic and ambient magic, ambient magic being a little more like wild magic. Academic magic is more Ritual, but ambient magic taps into the magic of the world itself and manifests itself in activities, such as cooking, weaving, gardening, sheer nothingness, and the weather. For particularly powerful mages, this can turn into Blessed with Suck.
The Dresden Files has Demonreach, a sentient island somewhere in Lake Michigan that you can only arrive at if you mean to and which actively opposes people who try to settle on it.
Hell, most magic. In the Dresdenverse, magic (alongside physics) is the fundamental building block that the universe is built upon. Sure, humans and various supernatural entities can draw upon magic (including using Ley Lines), and channel it to their will, but it's still wild.
Tales of the Five Hundred Kingdoms has the Tradition, which pushes people who are susceptible to it into the paths of traditional fairy tales — the heroine of the first book is a Cinderella whose destined prince is still a child. If the magic of the Tradition can't be channeled into a tale, it simply accumulates around the person until someone decides to take it... or until the circumstances are changed until they no longer fit the story.
In The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Wild Magic (channelled through white gold) is the only force powerful enough to destroy the Arch of Time. Naturally, Lord Foul spends the first two trilogies trying to get his hands on Covenant's white gold ring.
The Old Kingdom series uses both this and Ritual Magic, though the latter is used much more often than the former, due to Free magic being extremely dangerous, as described in this trope. This actually ties into the main plot; originally, Charter magic didn't exist, but seven of the nine great spirits who created the world sought to create something more organized, and bound Free magic using the Charter. This was then used to organize and create the known world.
Rather obviously foreshadowed in A Sudden Wild Magic. Zillah, a mage with little to no self confidence, has been constantly referred to the Arth mages of what amazing power she has, and also fittingly has no control of it. It comes to show when she manages to teleport Marcus, Josh, Philo, and herself out of Arth and into Petarchy.
In Laura Anne Gilman's Retriever series the use of "current" borders between Force Magic and Wild Magic. Over use of it runs the risk of "wizzing out" which results in a mage that is both extremely powerful and completely insane.
The Bas-Lag Cycle has this in the form of the Torque, which is something like a cross between this trope and The Virus. While some of the more layman characters believe it works like any of the setting's many other forms of Functional Magic, nothing could be further from the truth, and in reality, every previous attempt to harness or control the Torque led to some form of Body Horror on a massive scale.
A fundamental part of the world of The Obsidian Trilogy. Wild Magic is essentially the consciousness of all life in the world, and works to ensure as much life survives as possible. Using Wild Magic is essentially a series of bargains; whenever it does something for you, you have to do something for it in return; what that something is isn't revealed until you cast the spell, and is rarely if ever the same twice. For instance, a spell to heal a minor injury may cost "Plant twelve acorns" one day, and "Travel in this direction until you find something to help, then help it" the next. The costs are extremely variable, but are always, always fair. At one point, Idalia Tavadon casts a spell to stop a huge, long-lasting drought which has turned a rainforest into a tinderbox; this spell carries the cost of "you must die". The time of death isn't specified, however; all the caster knows is that Wild Magic will inform them when the time comes. The next spell they cast, and any subsequent spell up until their now-inevitable death, ends up being free, or more precisely "This spell has already been paid for", due to the immense worth in dying to permanently prevent demons from ever invading the world.
In Mogworld, magic is said to have a will of its own, and gets upset if a spell is finished by another person if the original caster is incapacitated in some way. It really doesn't like being used by corpses (i.e., the caster is killed midway through, and someone aims their severed forearm at their enemy and finishes the spell).
In The Ascendant Kingdoms Saga, it's called visithara by mages, as opposed to human-controlled hasithara. Without the anchors of the Lords of the Blood and their manors, hasithara is entirely replaced by uncontrollable visithara, which causes magic storms that do tremendous and frequently bizarre damage (such as causing a man to disappear into an inch-deep puddle and exploding livestock) and summon monsters from other worlds. Even a partial restoration of hasithara isn't sufficient: though magic storms decrease, what spells can be cast become prone to Magic Misfire.
In The Moon of Gomrath, the human protaganists inadvertently return the imprisoned Old Magic to the world by lighting a bonfire on a sacred mountain on the right night of the year, the Eve of Gomrath. The wizard Cadellin, Guardian of the High Magic, is not pleased and points out it took a lot of effort to imprison the damn stuff in the first place. Apparently the ordered and somewhat anally retentive High Magic is man's stuff (wizards) whilst the Old Wild Magic is that of women (The Lady in the Lake, the opposed Morrigan - and Susan, the human girl who lit the bonfire.)
Journey to Chaos: Chaos magic is basically energy from Lady Chaos, who, as can be expected, has Blue-and-Orange Morality. Elven lore says that it deliberately backfired on Dengel Tymh to teach him an object lesson in humility. It is impossible for any mage to successfully control without becoming chaos themselves.
In The War Gods: Magic is a raw background field of energy which can be tapped and manipulated. Traditional Wand Wizards use tools such as wands to bend magic in anyway they wish. In the west, they've mostly died out and been replaced by mages or Magi. Magi instead have specific gifts able to use the magic in a specific way. But very rarely a Wild Wizard is born, with the ability to direct the raw magic without tools. Only a Handful have ever lived, and tend to be founders of an Imperial Dynasty.
    Live-Action TV 
This is effectively what the "solar wind" in Cirque du Soleil's Widget Series Solstrom is. The sun creatures who wield it are affable and playful Trickster figures, but they can't fully control its effects. When it touches a person or environment, it can have positive effects — granting magical abilities, bringing lovers together, and generally acting as a Blithe Spirit. But it can also cause heaps of trouble; in "Howling Wind", an episode heavy on Black Comedy, it turns a rundown hotel into a Hell Hotel / Haunted Castle hybrid and several of the people within it into eccentrics and even monsters. By the end, two characters are dead, two are undead, and one is a Wolf Man — and the magic causes that last one to vanish to parts unknown in The Stinger.
The Hollow from Charmed (1998). A sentient magical force, its purpose seems to be to devour and absorb magic into itself. Powerful and difficult to control, it cannot be destroyed, merely contained and watched over by representatives of both good and evil.
    Tabletop Games 
The Warp in Warhammer 40,000: Some people can harness it, but it's very dangerous for them and others. This is known as "Perils of the Warp" in game terms, and can range from manifesting patches of frost or dropping an especially fragrant fart to tearing a hole in reality, with or without an attendant Daemon or other warp horror or being possessed. This can result in any Psyker who rolls snake-eyes being shot "For Your Own Good."
Dungeons & Dragons doesn't use this; it uses this trope's name for Entropy and Chaos Magic, but it's not otherwise this trope.
Mage: The Awakening: The Sourcebook Night Horrors: The Unbidden discusses how the magic that the Awakened use can go wild, especially when it is able to accumulate in one place (as a result of repeated spells or activity of supernatural beings, or for entirely unknowable reasons). It also talks about how such magic can spread, and the severe effects it can have.
GURPS Fantasy II. The strange effects on magic cast in the Madlands.
The Nightbane Supplement Through the Glass Darkly included rules for spells that had come alive and gained sentience. Later on this lead to aclass of Magic Users who deliberately did this everytime they caste a spell called the Spell Breather.
In Ironclaw necromancy draws upon the power of the restless dead, if someone rolls three sixes for any roll involved with black magic (casting, resisting, countering...) the spirits do other, horrific things. The Book of Mysteries supplement introduces Druid and Lutarist magic, which has some spells that carry a similar risk.
In Castle Falkenstein, wild magic is what happens if you draw a Joker while gathering energy for a spell. The spell goes off immediately, with unpredictable effects — determined by the gamemaster, which practically guarantees it will be ... entertaining.
Invisible Sun has the Order of Weavers, magic-users who shun formal rituals and instead take general types of magic and connect them together to get an effect. They may not get exactly what they want, but experienced Weavers can at least coax a good result out of things.
Pathfinder: Magic normally generates somewhere beyond reality, and is called and shaped by spellcasters to power their spells. Primal magic, also called wild magic, is what happens when magic enters the world without any directing force. The result is compared to thunderstorms, with potential constantly accreting before discharging dramatically. Potential effects include rains of random objects, pits spontaneously opening in the ground, swarms of centipedes appearing out of nowhere and attacking spellecasters, surges of positive, negative and elemental energy, teleportation storms that cause people to randomly switch places, and potentially a lot more besides. Primal magic normally only occurs in areas subjected to extensive magical devastation, although it's also very common in chaos-aligned Outer Planes.
    Video Games 
In Dragon Age, magic draws its power from an Eldritch Location known as the Fade, where the minds of humans and elves travel to in their dreams. The use of magic is dangerous, since the Fade is also home to demons and abominations that are attracted to magic users, which can lead to demonic possession, leading to distrust of mages by others, particularly Templars. Blood Magic is especially feared by many since its use makes it easier for demons to take control of the user, in addition to being far more powerful than other schools of magic.
In Baldur's Gate, Wild Mages are introduced in Throne of Bhaal, it being a game set in the Forgotten Realms Dungeons & Dragons setting. The Updated Re-release makes it possible to play as one from the first game in the trilogy and introduces Neera, a Wild Mage follower, as a new character. They have mostly the same spell list as regular mages, but whenever they cast a spell, it's possible for a "wild surge" to cause random helpful or harmful effects.
The spellcasters in the Puyo Puyo series have limited control over what they cast at best, and their world is full of malicious spirits they really have no control over. Occasionally, their magic will transport them to some other country or some other planet, and they have to find a way back home. That being said, every time the heroes are transported elsewhere, it always eventually leads them to discover some Omnicidal Maniac's apocalyptic plans, whom they must then defeat.
    Web Comics 
Roza's blood magic acts without her control.
Goblins has the magic item named the Shield of Wonder, which causes a random magical effect when being hit. Most of them are beneficial to the user of the shield (i.e. they harm the attacker), but are very often dangerous to him, too.
In Roommates also its Spin-Off Girls Next Door magic is... fickle. As an acknowledged plot device it's highly susceptible to the powers that shape these comics, mostly the Theory of Narrative Causality and Fanservice. So yes. Saying something even vaguely similar to the Right Words can create a magic effect (even if it takes some creative interpreting) if the result is interesting from a narrative or fan pleasing POV. And spells will backfire if/when dramatically appropriate... except if the characters count on that or something that is.
Dominic Deegan: In the Wild Edge Territories magic is a little unreliable thanks to the ambient magic, which also mutated the native flora and fauna into all sorts of strange and bizarre forms.
El Goonish Shive: The reason magic has the rules that it does is because of this. There are a large number of different possible rule configurations, but if the system was set up to have no downsides or limits, it would soon collapse.
The Will of Magic: Human spells would become random, the agitated energies forming massive storms of chaos magic.
Van: That sounds bad.
The Will of Magic: Yes. People would stop using magic.
    Web Original 
The enigma from Phaeton is believed to be Wild Magic. If it had a caster then that caster is probably long gone by now.
In There is no GATE; we did not fight there, magic in this universe comes from a dimension of sheer chaos, referred to as the Maelstrom. Those who use magic either naturally "dive" into the Maelstrom and simply "grab" the energy they need, or use a rigid spell structure to more safely tap into their magic. Considered a safer version of the Warp from Warhammer 40,000.
    Western Animation 
My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic
Young unicorns can run the risk, when very startled, of their magic going out of control. When Twilight Sparkle (one of the most powerful in modern memory) got her Cutie Mark, her uncontrolled magic turned her parents into houseplants, turned a baby dragon into a giant dragon, and came close to leveling the royal palace. Baby unicorns are even worse in this regard, since their magic is incredibly strong but purely instinctive, and cannot be controlled by anyone — especially not the baby. This is epitomized by Flurry Heart, a baby alicorn whose inherent magic is so strong — and so prone to being released by emotional outbursts — that she caused an ancient, powerful magical artifact to shatter into pieces entirely on accident. It is unknown if this level of raw power remains in unicorns and alicorns when they grow older.
Twilight Sparkle, a strong believer in Sufficiently Analyzed Magic, tries to figure out how Pinkie Pie's "Pinkie Sense" works in Feeling Pinkie Keen. Very few spells can teleport as Pinkie seems to, or see the immediate future, as she seems to. Even then, Pinkie wouldn't be able to use them, being an earth pony, not a unicorn. Twilight eventually gives up trying to explain Pinkie's chaotic abilities. Though later episodes do imply that the Spider-Sense may be an aspect of earth pony magic, given how other earth ponies showcase similar abilities.
The Owl House This type of magic occurs on the Boiling Isles, with the elements literally having runes in them, and was stated to be the original type of magic early witches used before evolving their own internal magic reserves.

The Key Is Behind the Lock
"This kind of packaging should be outlawed! Why does it still exist? I especially love when you buy scissors and you need scissors to open the scissors!"
—The Angry Video Game Nerd on Tiger Handheld Games
Something important is locked. There is a key. However, this key is inside. You need the key to reach the key.
While this trope can be Played for Laughs with trivial situations such as locking your car keys in the car, many works that use it choose to employ it in a far more dramatic manner. The hero is on a quest to find the key, eventually finding some other way to reach what he needed the key for - and then he finds out that his initial quest was futile; the key was inside all along.
In a video game, this can be used to create a Door to Before.
If The Key Is Behind And In The Lock, one possible solution is the Paper Key-Retrieval Trick. Otherwise Hairpin Lockpick, Skeleton Key Card or Shoot Out the Lock may help to resolve the problem.
Subtrope of the Catch-22 Dilemma.
Examples:
Anime and Manga 
In one episode of Cardcaptor Sakura, Tomoyo has been trapped in a classroom as Eriol messed with the floor plan as a test for Sakura. Sakura needs to find her, and Syaoran says he has a magical technique that can locate lost people, provided she has left an object behind. (Not unlike a dog using scent, except it works off auras/energy signatures.) Tomoyo did have an umbrella...but it's with her in the very classroom they're trying to locate. The actual solution, which Sakura eventually figured out, was to convert the Shadow card and use its power to seek Tomoyo's shadow, following it as it went.
In the third episode of Cowboy Bebop this is played straight. The only way to decrypt the special decryption program is with a cypher key that was itself encrypted, and only the protagonists know where the key is.
Played for Laughs in Yuri Is My Job. The main character, Hime Shiraki, is a girl who wants everyone to love her. She ends up working at a salon where the employees roleplay as members of an all-girls school, and takes part in the Blume elections, in which one student is chosen as "Lady Blume," to represent the school, and is given the privilege of making a decree. Hime considers asking for everyone to love her, but since the Blume title is decided by popular vote, Hime's friend Kanoko thinks, "Hime-chan, that's already what being Lady Blume means!"
Played for Laughs in Yu Yu Hakusho. At the start of the Chapter Black arc, Kuwabara, Botan and Kurama are searching for Hiei, since Yusuke's been kidnapped and those responsible want the four of them to come to the hideout. After the group realizes that their tools won't help find Hiei, Botan laments that Hiei isn't here, or else he could find himself with his Evil Eye.
    Comic Books 
Disney Ducks Comic Universe:
In the Donald Duck story "Sagmore Springs Hotel", Donald, as a Hotel Manager, accidentally locks the combination to the hotel safe inside the safe. In his attempts to open it, he ends up devastating the entire hotel and destroying his uncle's important cheque.
Another story had Magica DeSpell tracking down the ingredients for a spell that will enhance her magical abilites to unstoppable levels. After getting run ragged tracking down various rare ingredients, she discovers the last ingredient is... the most prized possession of her worst enemy. Which just happens to be Scrooge McDuck's #1 Dime, and she needs the potion to get the dime in the first place. Poor Magica throws a fit and gives up on making the potion.
An Achille Talon story has an emergency phone protected behind a glass that must only be broken with a hammer that is also behind the glass. This causes a breakdown to the policeman who wanted to use it, while another character attempts to comfort him by saying it probably prevents a lot of hammer thefts.note 
Amadeus Cho is a super-genius character in Marvel Comics who, however, needs high-sugar junk food for his brain to function properly. In one issue of The Incredible Hercules he is kept prisoner in a society where the only junk food is locked in a vault (long story), and his intelligence is faltering. He manages to reach the vault and says "After I eat the food inside I'll be smart enough to figure out how to open the vault", and only then realizes the flaw in his plan.
    Comic Strips 
One strip of The Far Side had a pair of aliens trapped on Earth. As a crowd of curious humans approaches them, one of them says to the other "Well, here they come. You locked the keys inside, you do the talking."
    Fan Works 
Rocketship Voyager. In the middle of a raging battle, B'Elanna Torres finds herself having to get through an air-lock hatch whose locking handle has been wrenched off, with the latches all on the inside. She disconnects the electromagnets used to clamp the docking tunnel onto another spacecraft, and places them around the hatch mounting so their magnetic field pulls open the latches.
    Film — Animated 
In The Simpsons Movie, Prof. Frink has invented a drill that could cut through the dome and free them all. "It's right there, out... side the dome."
    Film — Live Action 
In the first Back to the Future movie, Marty is thrown into a car trunk by Biff's goons. The car belongs to one of the members of the band that was playing at the dance, who chase them off. The band tries to get Marty out, but the keys are in the trunk. This becomes a plot point later when the band manages to free Marty, but the guitarist slices his hand as he does it, forcing Marty to take over at the dance.
A similar moment happens in The Whole Ten Yards.
Lazlo: You locked my son in the trunk?
Oz: No! No, sir. He locked himself in the trunk.
Lazlo: [pause] This I believe.
In the Joss Whedon version of Much Ado About Nothing (2012), Nathan Fillion, playing the fuzz, has this happen to him.
In The Hugga Bunch Made-for-TV Movie, the villainess, Queen Admira, stays young by eating young berries, which grow on a tree she keeps locked under a glass dome. When the heroine comes to take some young berries for her grandmother, Admira catches her in the act. In her hurry to leave, the heroine accidentally leaves the key for the dome on the ground by the tree, and as the dome descends, Admira lunges toward the key, but is too late.
In Little Monsters the heroes are trapped in a locked room by the villain. After MacGyvering a way for Maurice to be reduced to a pile of clothes and slid under the door, once on the other side he says:
Maurice: Any of you freaks know how to pick a combination lock?
Although he's simply joking and opens the door a second later.
This exchange from Spaceballs:
(Guard shoots the lock on the Winebago)
Dot: Open the door!
Barf: I can't, the lock is fused!
Vespa: What about this door?
Barf: Its locked!
Vespa: Where are the keys?
Barf: Inside!
Vespa: Oh great!
Played for Drama in The Bourne Legacy. When one of the scientists locks the door to a top secret lab and starts shooting his colleagues, an armed security guard responds, only to be told that everyone who knows the access code is already in there with the killer. By the time another guard arrives with a master key, everyone's dead except for a Sole Survivor.
In Up the Chastity Belt, Nick the Pick is called in to unlock Lobelia's chastity belt. However, all of his tools are in his toolbox, which is locked. And he can't find the key. The rest of film shows his increasingly desperate attempts to open the toolbox.
    Jokes 
World War II. Hitler hears of the Staff of Moses, which can make the seas part. If the Germans can get their hands on it, they can invade England by land. Where is the staff? In the British Museum.
    Literature 
In Blå Tornet, the Guardian has been sleeping on the High Altar for over a thousand years. There are a lot of prophecies about how a chosen one will one day wake him. In the meantime, one of the worst blasphemy someone can do is to touch the Guardian's holy sleeping body. It turns out that they artifact needed to wake the Guardian is in fact inside the altar: Only a blasphemer can heal the horrible wrong that happened so long ago, and lead the civilization back on the quest the creators had originally intended.
Discworld:
There's a recurring gag in Thief of Time about "opening the box with the crowbar you will find inside". The solution is get some help; in the literal example early on, Igor is inside the box with the crowbar and hands it to Jeremy through the slats.
In Jingo the Bursar has locked himself in the Unseen University safe and taken the key with him. "It's not even as if there's a keyhole on the inside".
In Going Postal, Vetinari plays mind games with condemned criminals—if they use the spoon they get with their gruel to try and dig a stone block out of the wall as part of an escape attempt (ruining the spoon in the process), they finally pull the block out only to find a little alcove behind with a shiny new spoon in it.
Guards! Guards! has an interesting example. Vetinari is locked in the dungeon by Wonse after the dragon becomes King, and when Vimes manages to break in and find him, he realizes that the dungeon has a complicated locking mechanism on the inside so that Vetinari is, at that moment, the safest person in the city. He also, of course, has a key to the dungeon, and promptly uses it once the dragon is defeated.
A fairly standard situation in the Locked Room Mystery is for the police to have to break into the Locked Room, because the key is inside with the deceased.
Isaac Asimov:
Subverted in a short story by Isaac Asimov, where people are searching for an uranium asteroid an illegal miner found, and due to the miners dying in an accident, all they have is a statement by a silicon based alien that the coordinates are "on the asteroid" (the alien died right after saying that). In the end it turns out that the alien wasn't particularly up to date in astronomy, and the coordinates were actually on the ship - hidden among the registration codes of the equipment.
"Insert Knob A in Hole B": The machine that can correctly put together the components of any device, is disassembled into its components for shipping.
A Song of Ice and Fire: As it turns out, to solve a prophecy about how to get dragons back into the world so you can be very powerful through controlling them again... you kind of needed to remember enough about how to incubate dragon eggs, first, to understand what the hints in the riddle were likely to be blathering on about to spot which circumstances would help to hatch them successfully. Easy. Not. Some, like Aegon V, tried brute-forcing the thing using overwhelming power (lots of Greek Fire) and some best guesses: it failed. Others might have tried to be sneaky chessmasters (looking at you, Bloodraven) trying to move people and circumstances into likely positions — to then get burned by the unexpected consequences of getting the code a little wrong back-blasting them. Alternatively, you could just totally luck out by hitting on the actual combination randomly without meaning to solve the thing... as Daenarys has. She doesn't seem to even know that a full prophecy exists, although she might still know some of the info it had in it. Problem is, once successfully incubated and hatched, you then also need to, you know, find a way to direct and the control your dragons, since how to train them has also been lost to the mists of time. And, there's only one way to learn, now: playing with fire by trial and error. Which a lot of people will be very unlikely to be willing to let you do, so will have hidden or destroyed pieces of information you would have needed to get to this point in the hopes of stopping you getting to the dragon-riding stage in the first place... Um. No wonder the Targaryens repeatedly hit problems with trying to force that prophecy open with the equivalent of either a crowbar or lockpick...
Towards the beginning of the Lord Darcy novel "Too Many Magicians", Master Sorceror Sir James Zwinge is in apparent distress in his hotel room. But he'd enchanted the lock to his room so that only one copy of the room key could open the lock - his personal copy, which was with him in the room. The people responding to his call for help had to smash a hole in the door with an ax to get inside, by which time he'd bled to death.
A variation in Star Corps Agent. The protagonist gets his hands on a box his partner was killed for. He can only guess what's inside. Possibly a way to get advantage in the war with the Radnits. But would it help him get off the hostile planet alive to deliver it to Earth? It could be a powerful handheld weapon that he could use to shoot his way through the spaceport cordon. Or it could be designs for a ship part, which are utterly useless to him at the moment. But the box is of a type that can only be locked from inside, which means that if he opens it, he won't be able to use it to barter for a way off the planet. He ends up opening it anyway and finds a genetically-engineered symbiote that turns him into a Super (normally, Supers are born). He swaps the symbiote in the box for his disguise symbiote, then uses telekinesis to lock the box from the inside. The Radnits scan the box and detect a symbiote, so they let him leave.
When humanity starts reverse-engineering alien technology in Troy Rising, their Artificial Gravity prototypes are clunky, prone to lethal malfunctions, and flies to pieces under anything but the lighest use. By the time they discuss this with Tyler Vernon, the scientists have worked out that the only tool capable of making an efficient gravity generator is another efficient gravity generator.
    Live Action TV 
On two separate occasions on I Love Lucy, Lucy gets locked in a meat freezer and a steamer trunk. Both times, she has the key to the lock.
Corner Gas:
Hank had a lockbox with a combination lock. One of the things inside the lockbox was a notepad where he wrote down important stuff he needed to remember... such as the combination to the lock.
Hank once locked his keys in his truck. He had a great deal of difficulty trying to unlock it with a coat hanger, until Davis passed by and notified him that his passenger-side window was open.
That happens in an episode of Get Smart too, regarding the wall safe in the Chief's office.
Chief: Have you got the new combination, Max?
Max: New combination?
Chief: Yes, according to standard security procedures we changed the combination yesterday. Do you have it?
Max: Well, I didn't memorize it, but I had the usual three copies made.
Chief: Where are they?
Max: I burned them.
Chief: Oh, yes. Of course. Do you have the Master Copy?
Max: No I don't, Chief. But I put it in a place where no one will get it.
Chief: Where, Max?
Max looks at the wall safe.
In an episode of Caroline in the City, Del and Charlie get trapped in Del's car due to a snow plow and Charlie accidentally locking the keys in the trunk instead of an ice scraper.
In one episode of the children's magazine show Jigsaw, the cast were given a telephone with which to summon the OO Men for their Once an Episode appearance. The telephone was in a sealed, glass-fronted cabinet, so there was also a hammer to break the glass. The hammer was inside the cabinet.
Parodied in a 2011 episode of The Colbert Report. While discussing cloud storage, Stephen proclaims he stores all his information in the cloud, including info needed to answer the security questions when forgetting his password to the cloud.
One episode of Fraggle Rock had Doc and Sprocket acquiring a locked trunk and spending the entire episode trying to get it open. When they finally do, all that's inside is the key.
An episode of Cheers had Woody trying to install a VCR when someone handed him the instructional video that came with it. Woody of all people incredulously asks, "We hook it up. . .and then we watch the video on how to hook it up?!"
In the Black Books episode "The Big Lockout" Manny bought a security system. It was very simple, you press 05 to arm it and then when you go out it will lock automatically. And then when you come back in, you punch in the code and the lock will open. Bernard quickly points out the slight problem with this that if the door's locked, he can't get in to punch in the code to open the door. As it turned out, Manny didn't know the code anyway.
    Tabletop Games 
This is basically what makes some deals of Solitaire unwinnable. If the cards onto which you'd need to move a face-up card all happen to be face down behind it, then they might as well be keys on the wrong side of a locked door.
Likewise, unwinnable layouts in Mahjong Solitaire result when needed tiles are trapped between tiles that can't be accessed without them.
Similarly, unwinnable games of Freecell, where the cards you need are locked underneath cards you can't move anywhere.
    Video Games 
Invoked & defied in Quest for Glory V. Your room at the inn has a storage chest, and you can put your room key in it. However, you cannot keep the key there: The narrator will go on about how you "realize your mistake", and the game will automatically make you take your key back. This mechanism is still in place after you install the "mystic magnets" that will let you teleport into your room (without the key) whenever you want to.
The Legend of Zelda:
In A Link to the Past, there's one locked treasure chest whose only key, you are told, is inside the chest, and you can never open it. Fortunately you can drag it with you until you find a master lockpicker.
In A Link To The Past: Randomizer, the randomizer logic explicitly averts this; but the more recent versions make an exception for the specific cases where a Small Key is the only thing behind an ordinary lock. Also, in the two dungeons note  where the Big Key isn't required to reach the boss (or any other chest), the Big Key can be locked inside the Big Chest, since it doesn't prevent completion of the game.
Link's Awakening:
An Unwinnable by Insanity example in Angler Tunnel: the door one particular Interchangeable Antimatter Key was meant to be used on has another behind it, but by making a tricky jump it could be used on a different door that didn't have a replacement behind it.
Played with in the Key Cavern, also averting Permanently Missable Content. A hub room in one part of the dungeon had four locked doors. Three of them were dead ends that also contained a key (which could be used on one of the remaining locked doors), while the fourth allowed the player to proceed (but did not give the player a key, so the other doors accessible from the hub remained locked). Near the end of the dungeon, an extra key could be obtained to access any locked rooms the player hadn't entered.
At one point in Skyward Sword, a key is held by a Mook on the other side of some bars. The solution is to use the whip to grab the key.
In Minish Cap, Talon lost the key to Lon Lon Ranch, and the spare key is inside the house. The solution is to shrink down to Minish size, enter the house through a small hole, pick up the key inside and bring it to him.
Breath of the Wild:
The shrine containing the bomb rune is surrounded by walls, and the gate is blocked by a giant rock that can only be destroyed by... bombs. It serves as a reminder to players of previous Zelda games that in this one, just climbing over the wall is a viable option.
A shrine has a literal example, where a chest containing the key you need to get into a cell is inside the cell. The solution is to shoot a burning arrow through the cell's bars into the chest, which is made of wood. Once the chest burns up, you can use the Magnesis rune to pick up the key.
The upper reaches of Death Mountain are so hot that Link will catch fire the instant he enters the hot zone, and rapidly start losing health as a direct consequence. Fireproof Elixirs, which negate this effect, can be bought at Eldin Ranch or off of Goron merchants at lower altitudes, but the very nature of the game means you could very well not approach from that direction, and even then the elixirs don't last forever (though one Fireproof Elixir is enough to get you to Goron City, and three will last you long enough to do some exploration in the process). Fireproof Lizards and Smotherwing Butterflies exist to make more elixirs, and Flameguard armor can be bought in Goron City to protect from the extreme heat... and both are found in the ultrahot parts of Death Mountain. You can circle around to approach from the south, or you can cook enough food to feed all of Hyrule and chomp on it until you get to Goron City. As a bonus, the armour merchant freaks out if you talk to him without active flame resistance.
Similarly, while still on the Isolated Plateau, you need frost resistance to get to one of the shrines. You can either learn how to craft frost resistance food at this early stage, and also receive a frost resistance armor as a reward, or if you can manage to make it all the way to the highest point in the cold zone (by building lots of camp fires along the way, carrying a torch whenever you've got a free hand, and eating food to heal whatever hearts get lost) the Old Man will reward your tenacity with the same piece of armor.
In Adventure, on the hardest difficulty, the items were distributed in a kind-of-random manner, which occasionally resulted in the gold key being locked in the gold castle. Despite entering the gold castle being a necessary step in completing the game (the last step, in fact), this did not make the game unwinnable, as sooner or later the bat would fly in and take the key out.
In Zork: Grand Inquisitor, there is a glass box ("In case of adventure, break glass") containing a spell scroll, a sword and a hammer. It can be easily opened, but the clamp holding the sword will not let go. The obvious solution is to open the box, take the hammer, close the box, break glass. Then the clamp lets go and you can take the sword.
In the NES port of Metal Gear, the keycard required to enter Building No. 4 is inside the building itself. This requires Snake to get captured on purpose in order to get inside said building.
A similar situation occurs in Snake's Revenge when the player reaches the entrance of the first enemy base. Only this time it's one of Snake's comrades who allows himself to get captured, so that Snake can sneak in undetected.
The first level of Mystery of Time and Space has the key in the keyhole on the other side of the locked door. To get it, you have to slide a poster underneath the door and then push something small enough through the keyhole to make the key drop onto the poster, which you can then retrieve.
The Interactive Fiction game Savoir-Faire has one locked door where you can see the key through the keyhole. The solution to unlocking this door is more creative than the usual ones, due to the game world's Functional Magic which lets you "link" similar things to each other so that doing something to one of them will similarly affect the other: link the key to your sword (it's ornate enough to allow the link) and then turn your sword in its sheath. Voila, an unlocked door!
Starship Titanic has a circular version - in order to obtain a hammer, you need to press a button with a long stick. However, in order to obtain a long stick behind glass, you must break the glass with a hammer. Fortunately, there's a parrot perch that you can use in place of the long stick.
Ratchet & Clank: Going Commando has a similar circular version. On one planet there is a wrench upgrade in a glass case with a "use wrench to break glass" note attached. Nearby in another glass case there is a rock with a "use rock to break glass to get wrench to break glass to get rock" note. As Clank tries to figure out the puzzle, Ratchet just smashes the wrench's case with his current wrench and takes it.
BioShock: the head dentist has been killed and thrown through his office window, and the only way to get in is to use the Telekinesis Plasmid to get his key off the wall behind the window.
Ancient Domains of Mystery: There's an intentionally useless item called the scroll of cure blindness. You can't read scrolls when you're blind. (It has some other, more creative uses, however.)
In Persona 5, during the infiltration of Madarame's Palace, the group finds a door that is guarded by a laser barrier, and a sign helpfully points out that the laser beams can be disabled in a control room on the other side of the barrier. Luckily, they have a way to get in: since the door matches one in the real Madarame's house, Morgana picks the lock so that Madarame witnesses it being opened, thereby changing his cognition that the door is unopenable and resulting in it being opened in the Metaverse. At that point, the protagonist and Ryuji take advantage of the window of opportunity to go inside and reach the control center so they can deactivate the beams.
From a gameplay perspective, the only way to unlock the ability to read two chapters at once requires a lot of effort. You need to unlock Jinbocho, and purchase and read "Master Swordsman," "Call Me Chief," and "Reckless Casanova" (which are the only books that take three sessions each to read) before you can buy the "Speed Reading" book. Once you read that book, you can read all the others in one night, but since all other books require one or two sessions to read without the book, this ends up being an Awesome, but Impractical perk.
Dwarf Fortress: Embarking without an anvil walks the line between Self-Imposed Challenge and Unwinnable by Insanity. You need an anvil to forge anything out of metal, and anvils can't be made out of anything else.
Paper Mario: When you first meet Bombette, she is locked up in the dungeon at Koopa Bros. Fortress. As there is no door to the cell, you need to travel to the floor above and trigger a trapdoor that will drop you into the cell. Fortunately, Bombette will join your party at this point, and you can use her ability to blast through the wall. Bombette will then realize that she could broken out sooner if she had actually thought to do so.
Banjo-Tooie: When you first enter Grunty Industries, the front door to the factory will be locked, preventing you from making any significant progress in the level. However, if you search around a bit, you'll find the switch that opens up the factory's train station. While the station is inside of the locked building, you can leave the level, backtrack to another train station, then ride the train into the station inside Grunty Industries. As you explore the factory, you'll eventually be able to open the front door from the inside.
In Pokémon Platinum, the only way to obtain Regigigas is to have all three of the other Regis... which can only be obtained by getting a Regigigas through events! The only other way to get them (and the only way to get Regigigas period in Diamond and Pearl) is to transfer them from the Generation III games.
    Web Original 
When The Angry Video Game Nerd needs to open the plastic case around a Tiger Electronics wristwatch game, he gets a pair of scissors from the Bullshit Man, who complains about needing a second pair of scissors to open the plastic packaging around the first pair.
Averted in Stuart Ashen's review of the Packbuster (a multitool for opening the packaging around products). The blister pack has a notch cut into one corner so you can open it without using scissors or the Packbuster. As Stuart puts it: "Extra bonus points for that; that is good. There's nothing like buying some sort of device for packages and not being able to get in the package."
Rinkworks Computer Stupidities:
A computer teacher plans to hold a class on routers and requests a half dozen from a colleague. The routers are shipped in a pair of cargo boxes secured by combination locks. The page with the combinations is inside one of the boxes.
A user tries to sign up with an Internet Service Provider, only to discover that access to that ISP's website to set up the account requires a username and password from that ISP. In other words, you need to be a member to access the site to become a member.
    Webcomics 
Zoë's first line in Sluggy Freelance is "Help! I need a phone! I locked my keys in the car with the engine running!" This is also referenced later when she temporarily moves to a place with normal people. (Oh, and Clem.)
In Goblins, the Key of Darkness is inside the locked Well of Darkness because the adventurer who carried it in was killed by a trap.
Subverted in Tower of God, episode 295: the Ten Bosses of the Name Hunt Station are trying to keep the protagonists from finding a certain key by having one of their number keep it hidden in a room that can only be opened with the same key. It turns out that that part doesn't really matter, though, since the room can't be locked from the inside.
Darths & Droids In episode 1643, Jim — a player known for plans that he thinks are brilliant — has his character suggest a method of finding the planet Toprawa that ultimately hinges on raiding the Imperial data facility... which is on Toprawa.
    Western Animation 
Parodied in the Family Guy episode "Petarded", where a flashback shows one incident where Peter locked his keys outside his car, trapping himself inside.
In one version of the backstory for He-Man and the Masters of the Universe (1983), Prince Adam was questing with Teela for what would later become his magic sword. Wielding this sword was the only way to enter Castle Grayskull. And yes, the sword was inside the castle.
In a cartoon episode of Lucky Luke, the usual criminal Dalton Brothers were trying to be honest, and to have a honest work, they open their own bank. At one point Averell Dalton is commanded to open the safe, but he can't remember where the key is, so he opens the safe with dynamite. It turns out that the key is inside, and Averell closed it in there "for safety". Joe Dalton is not amused.
In What's with Andy? episode "The Great American Lock-In", Andy reverses the locks in the front doors of his school, then lures in Lik and Leech. Unfortunately, he has dropped the keys outside of the school.
In the Star vs. the Forces of Evil episode "My New Wand", Star's wand goes crazy and seals itself in her closet along with the spellbook. Since Star unlocks the closet with the wand, this presents a problem. She has to learn to channel magic without the wand's help to solve the problem.
In one episode of Phineas and Ferb, Dr. Doofenshmirtz finds the door to his truck won't close. He spends sometime struggling with the door, finally gets it shut and locked, and then looks in through the window:
Doofenshmirtz: "Those are my keys, aren't they?"
Played in The Simpsons episode "Marge Vs The Monorail, where a scientist said to Marge the monorail "better to have a damn good conductor". Gilligan Cut to Homer trying to pry open the monorail's cockpit door because he locked his keys in there.
Homer (to Bart): Get a rock.
In The Raccoons episode "The Intruders!", Cedric and Ralph accidentally get locked inside of Cyril's vault, which is programmed to not open up until Groundhog Day. Cyril points out that there is a key that Cedric can use that can override the system, which is locked in a safe within the vault. Or at least there would have been, if the pigs had actually bothered to put it there...
    Real Life 
This trope is possible for anybody who keeps the passcode to unlock their mobile device in a writing app within the device itself.
The doors of many apartments and hotel rooms behave like most padlocks: The key isn't necessary to lock them (simply closing them is enough), making it very easy to lock the keys inside. Dorm rooms as well, as many a college student who forgot his key when he goes to take a shower can attest to.
Many cars avert this by making the front doors require the key to be locked from the outside (by disabling the "lock while open" feature). One can still lock self out using the back doors, but you'd almost certainly have to be doing it on purpose. It's also worth nothing that this and similar safeguards came about because locking your keys in the car was such a pervasive issue. It may be largely averted now, but that's a relatively recent development. However, it can still be possible to manually lock the door by pushing the lock post down, even if the electric lock will unlock the door. And sometimes it will only prevent locking if the key is in the ignition, but not if it's sitting in the seat.
In his memoir Carrying The Fire, Apollo 11 astronaut Michael Collins devotes some time to explaining why good cockpit design is important. He describes an example of bad cockpit design: there used to be an Air Force trainer with a placard mounted on the canopy rail that listed all the steps of the ejection procedure. Unfortunately, the first item on the list was jettison the canopy.
Many trains in Great Britain are provided with little hammers that have a notice saying that in the event of an emergency, the hammer should be used to break the windows of the train. The little hammer is always in a little box with a transparent cover and no way of opening the box or breaking into it. Many travelers have wondered how they are supposed to break the glass to get the hammer that allows them to break glass.note 
Even more extreme variation in some Mexican cities: the hammer needed to break the glass is actually outside the glass box... covered by a metal case that's screwed to the wall.

Quotes / The Key Is Behind the Lock
"You know what's BUUUULLLLLLSHIT?! Packaging that you need scissors to open. Even with the scissors, it's still a pain in the ass. [...] I especially love when you buy scissors and you need scissors to open the scissors. What fucking idiots think this is a good idea?"
— Bullshit Man, The Angry Video Game Nerd, "Tiger Electronic Games"
To reach Hel, first you must enter the Eternal Prison. To enter the Eternal Prison, you must defeat the terrible bird Vidofnir. To defeat Vidofnir, you will need the power of flame. Surtr's wife, Sinmara, possesses the power of flame. You will need the Light Scythe in order to receive the power of flame from Sinmara. The Light Scythe lies inside the Eternal Prison. Therefore, you cannot reach Hel.
— Modgud, La-Mulana 2
I was working for a computer education company, setting up the classes. One week we were training for Cisco routers. To do this, another training company sent us six routers in two cargo boxes locked with combination locks. The sheet of paper with the combinations was shipped securely inside.
— from Rinkworks Computer Supidities, specifically this page
So we're at Nicodemus's place. Nicodemus is a very private person, and an extremely clever person. Check out his defenses. What's tricky here is that Nicodemus never leaves his house, which is protected by force fields and a magically locked door.
The force field isn't a problem. The magical door lock is the problem. You see, I need the Unlock Magic spell for that.
Nicodemus sells the Unlock Magic spell.
In terms of making sure he isn't disturbed, Nicodemus is the sharpest bastard in the country.
—Lets Player Nakar, on Ultima VI [1]

There Is No Try
"No! Try not. Do, or do not. There is no try."
— Yoda, Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
It's more than a Training Montage — this is hard work. The hero needs to get to a new level of ability, and fast. Thankfully, he has just the hard-nosed master to teach him. But the hero just isn't up to speed: He never quite lands that punch, his chi flow is too far off to channel that spell, and the master is thrashing him in the process.
Then the hero stops and the master gives a brief line that lights a fire in the hero: "Stop trying to hit me and hit me!"/"If you aren't good enough, give up and stop wasting my time," and whoosh. He has it. He lands a blow, he casts the lightning bolt, etc. The master quips, "Beginner's luck," or "Not bad," and launches into another attack (usually demonstrating that the Hero still has some way to go). We cut out and the next time we see the Hero, he has mastered the technique.
An abbreviated and harsher version of a Rousing Speech, it is often accompanied by a reminder of what the Hero is fighting for, usually (but not always) framed in a way that insults either the Hero or the person/thing he is trying to save. This is done to get the Hero angry enough that he'll temporarily forget whatever mental hang-up is preventing him from getting this trick right.
There is some Truth in Television here; often the mental hang-up is self-doubt - if you don't believe you're capable of performing a given act, it's much less likely that you'll be able to do it. When You Snatch the Pebble...
This is also closely related to muscle memory and the Centipede's Dilemma; many complex actions are dependent on subconscious rather than conscious action - putting too much concentration into some tasks actually makes them harder to perform; swimming, riding a bicycle, and of course martial arts.
The keystone of Training from Hell and The Spartan Way. Related to Hit Me, Dammit! and sometimes Don't Think, Feel.
Examples:
Fan Works 
Defied in Chapter 8 of This Bites!:
Soundbite: I'll…try… (Death Glare) Quote Yoda AND DIE.
    Films — Animated 
Used by Master Shifu in Kung Fu Panda when he finally figures out how to train Po. Makes sense, really, since he - at times - seems just a half-pint of green dye short of being Yoda.
Mulan has the titular character taking her father's place in the army, and failing miserably in training. After Shang essentially tells her she's too weak to make it, she becomes determined enough to do what no one else could. Retrieving the arrow atop a pole while wearing heavy weights around her wrists, from there her abilities are shown to be better than everyone else in the army. This also seems to inspire the rest of the trainees into Taking a Level in Badass.
    Films — Live-Action 
Silent Bob tries to quote this in Chasing Amy, but Jay punches him in the arm before he can complete it.
The Karate Kid (1984):
Miyagi: Now, ready?
Daniel: Yeah, I guess so.
Miyagi: Daniel-san, must talk. Walk on road, hm? Walk left side, safe. Walk right side, safe. Walk middle, sooner or later, (makes squish gesture) get squish just like grape. Here, karate, same thing. Either you karate do "yes", or karate do "no". You karate do "guess so", (makes squish gesture) just like grape. Understand?
In Kill Bill Vol. 2 Pai Mei tells Black Mamba, in response to her inability to punch through a thick board at close range, "It is the wood that should fear your hand, not the other way around! No wonder you can't do it; you acquiesce to defeat before you even begin."
In The Matrix, Morpheus's "Stop trying to hit me and hit me!" line he delivered while sparring with Neo.
Yoda's force training of Luke in The Empire Strikes Back. Oddly, this subverts the very trope it names, as Luke fails to rise to the occasion of using the Force to move his sunken X-wing out of a lake. This highlights the problem; Luke doesn't believe he can do it, and because he doesn't, he can't. He gives up until Yoda demonstrates how badass he is by raising the X-wing out of the water.
Luke: ...I don't believe it!
Yoda: And that is why you fail.
    Literature 
The children's story of The Little Engine that Could also illustrates this mindset: "I think I can, I think I can, I think I can... I thought I could, I thought I could," etc.
In A Song of Ice and Fire, Jon Snow tells Sam to be brave.
Jon: I can't command you to be brave, but I can command you to hide your fears. You said the words, Sam. Remember?
Sam: I... I'll try.
Jon: You won't try. You will obey.
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Harry repeatedly tries and fails to summon a corporeal Patronus. He only gains the ability to do so due to a Stable Time Loop; the first time around, he witnesses what he believes to be his father protecting him from Dementors with a corporeal Patronus. When he re-experiences the moment, he realizes his father isn't going to show up to save him, but realizes he was/is there and therefore can. Dumbledore points out that he has thus discovered an element of his father inside himself. And having done it once, he can do it whenever he wants - For the rest of the series, he thus has access to an ability that usually qualifies one as an Auror.
In a hilarious exchange in the original The Mysterious Benedict Society book, the crabby Constance Contraire snaps this at George "Sticky" Washington when he uses his nervousness as an excuse for the fidgety gestures he makes that she mistakes for gestures that are supposed to indicate test answers in their cheating on the tests created by the Big Bad of the series, Mr. Ledroptha Curtain.
Constance: Every time you have a real itch, I get the wrong answer.
Sticky: Sorry, I get itchy when I'm nervous. I'll try to do better.
Constance: Don't just try. Actually do better.
Sticky: Hey, my fidgeting isn't the only problem, you know! It would help if you had practiced your Morse Code at all!
Kate: Now, children. Let's not quibble about who's to blame. Blaming is wrong. The important thing is to get along with one another, so we may have better success cheating.
    Live Action Television 
Averted in the final episode of season 1 of Andromeda where Dylan demands of his XO Beka Valentine that 'All that matters in life is that you try, promise me you'll try.' as she confesses she isn't sure if she can make it to the overrun command center of the ship.
Discussed in the pilot episode of The West Wing:
Mandy: (on the phone) Look, I don’t want to hear you’re going to try, Bruce. This isn't gym class...I said, gym class. Gym class!...Bruce, Bruce! Cause it's important in gym to try, but it is not necessarily - look, Bruce, it was a simple metaphor.
    Video Games 
Yuthura Ban of Knights of the Old Republic mentioned something that sounded like the dark side version of this; just another illustration of how Jedi and Sith are Not So Different.
    Webcomics 
In Kill Six Billion Demons, trying to use the power of a Key of Kings is doomed to fail: it takes a moment of absolute certainty. Effectively it involves bluffing the Universe into believing that it's wrong and your version of reality is correct, and the Universe has no patience for a Bad Liar.
    Western Animation 
Avatar: The Last Airbender: Toph's attitude to Aang whilst learning Earthbending is a definite "There is no try" attitude: "If you're not tough enough to stop the rock, then you could at least give it the pleasure of smooshing you instead of jumping out of the way like a jelly-boned wimp!!" This is because each of the bending discplines requires a particular quality in the bender, in this case stubborn, willful hard-headedness.
From the Animaniacs episode "Taming of the Screwy".
Dr. Scratchansniff: Okay, I'll try.
Mr. Plotz: Trying is not good enough, Scratchansniff. DO IT!
Star Wars Rebels: Examines the trope when Kanan tells Ezra "Do or do not, there is no try!" and Ezra retorts that it makes no sense: "How can I do something if I don't try to do it?" Kanan admits he always had trouble with that one, too, but "Master Yoda sure used to say it a lot!" Later they come back to the mental hang-up explanation for the advice. Kanan will not try to teach Ezra the ways of the Jedi, he will teach Ezra the ways of the Jedi.
It later gets a Call-Back when Sabine must learn how to use the darksaber and is hesitant for a number of reasons, one of which is that she doubts she can even wield it and only promises to try her hardest. Ezra's response is "Don't try, just learn.".

Quotes / There Is No Try
"Don't think you are, know you are."
— Morpheus, The Matrix
"Whether You Believe You Can Do a Thing or Not, You Are Right"
— Ascribed to Henri Ford.

Hot Wings
A massive flying creature made of energy, commonly a predatory bird made of fire, is a common visual metaphor for Limit Breaks, fast transportation and other special abilities. Or just making you look that much more badass. Dragons, moths and other winged creature shapes may also be used, up to Winged Humanoid. The origin of this trope seems to come from The Phoenix. If it's not the Phoenix, it's this.
In symbolism as applied to the wings this, just like other fire-based powers, usually given to Hot-Blooded and/or very powerful beings, whether "demonic" (Balrog), "angelic" (Archangel Gabriel) or otherwise.
Not to Be Confused with the equally badass food that is hot wings. Or, for that matter, with a hot character who just happens to have wings.
Examples:
Anime and Manga 
Rin's gemstone attack from Battle Moon Wars looks like this.
ShineGreymon Burst Mode in Digimon Savers and Digimon Xros Wars: The Young Hunters Leaping Through Time.
When Fairy Tail's Natsu gets powerful enough, he can manifest giant wings made of fire, and sometimes even a dragon-shaped aura of flames.
Atomsk from FLCL.
GaoGaiGar: King J-Der's J-Quath, a bow-shaped weapon that transforms into a vaguely bird-shaped ray that pierces enemies and extracts their cores. Topped in the OVA by the J-Phoenix, in which the entire (ship-sized) robot turns into a giant, much clearer phoenix, complete with a beak/mouth and peacock plumes. "In flame, the phoenix... IS REBORN!".
The J-Phoenix also doubles as being a Dangerous Forbidden Technique, since even the villain stated that smashing your ship right into the opponent's is generally considered suicidal. Also, a variant exists in the Plasma Wing that both J-Der and King J-Der are equipped with, which gives the Humongous Mecha wings... made of plasma.
When the Inbit/Invid leave Earth in Genesis Climber MOSPEADA (aka Robotech: The New Generation), they take the form of a huge energy Phoenix.
The Gundam franchize has a few of these. Most notably:
Victory Gundam: V-2 Victory Gundam has "Wings of Light" which cut enemies apart. And can extend to kilometers in length.
Gundam SEED: Freedom Gundam has a form with these.
Gundam SEED Destiny Destiny Gundam also has such a form.
∀ Gundam: The Turn A and Turn X both have the ultimate Hot Wings: Moonlight Butterfly.
In K: Missing Kings and Return of Kings Anna Kushina, the new Red King, has these.
In Kannazuki no Miko, Tsubasa's mech has glowing energy wings.
Signum from Lyrical Nanoha gets these when unisoned with Agito. Since she can fly already, it's mostly shorthand for the sheer amount of destruction she's about to lay down.
Rayearth from Magic Knight Rayearth has a pair.
The mature form of Saffron, the king of the bird people from Ranma ½, is a Winged Humanoid who can rip off his own wings, throw them like giant flaming shuriken, and then instantly regenerate the lost wings in a burst of flame.
Sailor Moon: Sailor Mars' Fire Soul Bird attack.
Saint Seiya: Phoenix Ikki almost always appears with a fiery, phoenix shaped aura. His most powerful attack always manifests as a phoenix in one shape or another.
Science Ninja Team Gatchaman: The God Phoenix maneuver. Good for moving in a hurry. Bad if you happen to be in front of it, as many a Monster of the Week found out the hard way.
Shakugan no Shana: Shana earns a sweet pair of fire wings relatively early on.
Tekkaman Blade's Crush Intrude attack.
Sunred's Super Mode Firebird Form in Tentai Senshi Sunred consists of a pair of massive fiery wings.
Yu-Gi-Oh!: When the Winged Dragon of Ra goes out of mechanical-gryphon mode, it takes the form of a bird made out of fire.
In Cardcaptor Sakura, the Fiery card takes the form of a young boy with flaming bird wings.
Suzaku in Fushigi Yuugi, in both his humanoid and bestial forms. Justified as he is The Phoenix.
     Comic Books  
X-Men: Jean Grey, commonly known as Phoenix often sheaths herself in a fiery bird-shaped aura when she flies, or just really cuts loose. Her daughter Rachel Summers does the same.
Peter David's Supergirl gained flame wings when she became an Earth-born angel.
In What If? vol 2 #114, in which the heroes remain trapped on Battleworld from Secret Wars (1984) and eventually have kids, this (along with shrinking) is the power of Matthew Storm, son of the Human Torch and the Wasp, who calls himself Firefly.
    Fan Works 
Child of the Storm has Phoenix hosts manifest the typical fiery bird-shaped aura.
Children of an Elder God: Asuka gained pyrokinesis and flame wings after killing a good number of Eldritch Abominations.
Asuka soared through the night on wings of flame.
Sunset Shimmer gains these after her ascension to godhood in Oversaturation.
    Films — Animated 
The Firebird from Fantasia 2000 has these, because it is made of fire.
Sunset Shimmer from My Little Pony: Equestria Girls gains these in her post-Rainbow Rocks music video "My Past is Not Today", illustrating her change from evil to good and her subsequent desire to make herself new. Her previously released "Time to Shine" doll also featured these.
In Hercules, Hades recruits the eagle that regularly eats Prometheus' liver and grants him this ability.
    Films — Live-Action 
In the film version of The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, the Phoenix on the side of La Résistance ignites itself into flames and then razes the ground to create a fiery barrier.
The Balrog in The Lord of the Rings had bony wings wreathed in smoke and shadow.
Rodan from Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019) has fiery embers emanating from his wings, apparently leaking from "veins" in the molten rock that covers his skin. In several scenes, this gives off the visual effect of the edges of his wings (and tail) being on fire.
     Literature 
The Hunger Games: Several of the outfits Cinna designs for Katniss. President Snow is not amused.
The Seraphim in Daughter of Smoke and Bone have these.
This dates back from the depiction of Seraphim in The Bible: a six-winged fiery Eldritch Abomination representing God's love, which use their wings to cover themselves from disintegrating whoever gaze upon them.
     Live-Action TV 
Kamen Rider:
Kamen Rider OOO: OOO's TaJaDol Combo has multiple finishing moves, one of which is the "Magna Blaze" Giga Scan (activated via inserting three red Core Medals and four Cell Medals into the Taja Spinner), surrounding him in a flaming phoenix-like aura (including extended wings) to destroy a target.
Super Sentai:
Choujin Sentai Jetman: The Jet Machines' combined Icarus Haken form can perform the Jet Phoenix attack, which envelops it in a flaming, phoenix-like aura (including extended wings) before it flies through the target to destroy it.
Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger: With the Jetman's Greater Power, the Gokaigers are able to perform the Gokai Jet Phoenix attack (identical to the original Jet Phoenix finisher), either while in the form of the Jetman themselves or through GokaiOh.
     Tabletop Games  
Dungeons & Dragons
Oriental Adventures supplement has 'Fire Wings' spell that turns the user's arms into phoenix-like flaming wings, allowing them to fly and burning everything close by, though the caster is protected.
The 4th Edition sorcerer Arcane Wellspring Paragon Path can give a character these.
In Magic: The Gathering, a lot of dragons and phoenixes have these, naturally, and Leap of Flame◊ gives you them.
Similarly, Magi-Nation has the Raxis.◊
     Video Games  
Kirby:
In Kirby's Epic Yarn (a punny game in the first place), the phoenix boss of Hot Land is actually named Hot Wings (yet it's not the Trope Namer).
Also, one of the bosses in Kirby: Squeak Squad is an owl with fiery wings and a raccoon tail, called Bohboh.
F-Zero: Most of Captain Falcon's special attacks in the Super Smash Bros. series invoke a flaming falcon. Especially the infamous "Falcon... PUNCH!"
The Sky Attack move is portrayed this way in Pokémon Stadium. It helps a lot that the Pokemon doing the attack usually is a bird, or at least can fly.
Don't forget that whole Ho-Oh thing mentioned above, either.
Or Moltres, at least in one appearance.
The move Brave Bird is also portrayed this way in the anime.
In Touhou, the Hourai Elixir-powered Fujiwara no Mokou often uses Phoenix-shaped Danmaku, and is surrounded by a phoenix-shaped Battle Aura whenever she resurrects or uses a spellcard. She's often portrayed in fanworks with the ability to cause huge Hot Wings to blaze into existance behind her.
The Cybuster of the Super Robot Wars series has an attack called the Akashic Buster, where it launches a bird of fire at the enemy, transforms into its own avian form and merges with the firebird, slamming into the target at high speeds.
Likewise, its Evil Counterpart Shurouga has Ley Buster, although it doesn't create a bird-like fire, it changes into something like a bird (like Cybuster's Cybird), covered with dark power and rams the opponent and... produces several interesting revelations...
The Angelg has a variant, called the Phantom Phoenix, which launches an energy arrow that turns into a fire bird.
This is actually preceded by Elbulls from Super Robot Wars 64, in which it's a bird-shaped mecha, and rams the enemy, Akashic Buster style.
And the Valhawk's Heat Edge Exploder in Super Robot Wars W.
Also Dairaioh's Jinrai from Super Robot Wars Alpha 3, which is a hybrid of this and a Rider Kick.
A common swordsman's or fighter's tech in the Tales Series ("Hououtenku" in Japanese, translated to English variously with the word "Phoenix" somewhere in it) allows the combatant to jump in the air, then dive diagonally towards the enemy wreathed in a fiery, bird-shaped aura.
Runes of Magic gives a spell to mages named Phoenix that allows them to summon a flaming bird to attack all enemies in a straight line.
Lilith sprouts a set when her aptly-named Phoenix ability triggers in Borderlands.
Jin's Force Max in Shining Force Feather.
Deathwing in Cataclysm.
Also during the Alysrazor encounter; players can collect her shed feathers to gain a speed buff, the ability to cast while moving, and flight.
In most Final Fantasy games where The Phoenix appears as a Summoned Monster, it usually just rises from the flames but has otherwise non-flaming wings. But in Final Fantasy V, where it made its first appearance, its entire body is enveloped in fire.
And in Final Fantasy Mystic Quest, there's a fire bird enemy actually named "Hot Wings".
The Legend of Dragoon loves this trope- while Dart transforms, his wings are formed of fire. Most of his special attacks cause this as well.
The Archangel Imperius has them in Diablo III.
Night Terror, the Bonus Boss of SoulCalibur III has wings made of orange energy.
Kid Icarus: Uprising: The Power of Flight causes Pit's wings to light up. Under normal circumstances, 'light up' is meant in the holy sense, but on two occasions (three counting a Non Standard Game Over) it's in the combustive sense. This. Is. NOT. Good.
In Fire Emblem Elibe Fire Dragons have wings composed of solid flame in both manakete, and dragon form.
Flame wings are among the many usable wings in Terraria.
In Them's Fightin' Herds, the half-dragon Longma race, including the playable character Tianhuo, can fly with wings of fire.
Shovel Knight has the Birders, some kind of blue energy falcon.
The Ares Skell in Xenoblade Chronicles X produces phoenix wings while flying.
Flaming Wings are common to see any Free-to-Play MMORPG which makes its money by selling Cosmetic items for cash, and are usually in high demand and fetch a high price if the game allows players to sell cash items to one another with in-game currency.
In Dota 2, the hero "Phoenix" is an avatar of a sun and is thus made entirely from fire.
    Web Animation 
Kiki from Fairy Foxes has a tendency to set her wings ablaze when she is angry, euphoric, or using her fire powers.
    Web Comics 
Antimony from Gunnerkrigg Court, going on with her basic nature and The Phoenix metaphor of her life, during her summer in the Gillitie Wood learned to spread these. While for normal sight it's just a subtle wings-shaped blur in the air, albeit with quite impressive span, for etheric vision she can look like a Winged Humanoid... melded with firestorm.
Plume has the artifact called the Mask of Seraphim, which gives the wearer seven pairs of fiery wings.

Quotes / Hot Wings
Asuka soared through the night on wings of flame.
— Children of an Elder God

Speed Blitz
"Remy jumped across the ring and threw a roundhouse that seemed to hit nothing. Which didn't explain why Vernon was horizontal and twitching. The announcers were confused, the audience was confused and you had to look at the slow motion replay to see what the hell happened. It was like a Bruce Lee urban legend — the film was too slow to catch it. In one frame you see Remy's foot about to hit Vernon's temple, and in the next, his foot has moved three feet and Vernon's head is a horizontal smear. Remy knocked this man out with a flying Photoshop filter."
— Seanbaby, "The 10 Most Insane Acts of Violence in Kickboxing History"
Some people are fast. Some people are very very fast. Some of them travel so fast you can't even see them move.
And sometimes these people will fight so fast you hardly even get to react. That's a speed blitz.
Fights like this can end before bystanders even know it has started. As the name suggests it's more being hit by lightning than getting in a brawl. A common version of this in anime is to Flash Step past a person and strike them in a process, never slowing down enough to be seen.
Can be a serious source of Fridge Logic for speedsters. After all, if they can fight like this, why don't they do it all time? The Doylist answer is Rule of Drama; it's hard for a non-speedster to resist a Speed Blitz, so if it happened all the time, there would be no tension. Watsonian answers usually call on some Necessary Drawback; maybe this use of speed is damaging to the body or creates sonic booms that will harm bystanders or it's simply incredibly exhausting.
This sort of thing can happen in real life to a limited extent - if you film an expert martial artist and then replay it frame by frame, their fists and feet can go a surprising distance in a fraction of a second.
Named after a common term in internet fight threads, itself probably a reference to the Nazi tactic of blitzkrieg, meaning "Lightning War".
If the blitz takes the form of a hail of punches, it's Rapid-Fire Fisticuffs.
Compare Single-Stroke Battle.
Examples:
Anime & Manga 
In Dragon Ball Z, Trunks encounters a group of Frieza's henchmen. In a single Flash Step, Trunks manages to Clean Cut all of them. Around this point, it's a common form of combat.
Gogeta is a master of this, his first attack against Janemba in Fusion Reborn is literally just blurs of motion while impact blow impacts appear on the Demon’s chest. Gogeta’s canon debut is no stranger to this either, his attacks are blindingly fast and powerful.
It was actually parodied in the original, early battles of Dragon Ball, before it could even become a trope. In the Tenkai Ichi Budokai tournament, Master Roshie (in disguise as "Jackie Chun") fights Krillin. The fight is over before the audience can even blink. Annoyed, they demand a better show, so Jackie Chun and Krillin go back and sloooooowly reenact the dozens of attacks, feints, blocks, defenses, and even taunts that they used in that split-second, complete with helpful commentary.
The "Ultra Instinct" form is often shown this way in Dragon Ball Super, to highlight just how much of a god-level technique it is compared to just normal Super Speed or Super Reflexes. When Goku first masters the form, he hits Jiren several dozen times without even appearing to move at all. In another case, him exchanging blasts with Jiren is portrayed as his arms only appearing to vibrate as uncountable explosions appear between the two fighters.
This is how the Flash Step is introduced in Bleach, with Byakuya using it to beat up Ichigo so fast that Ichigo can't even see what's happening. Ichigo also doesn't realize until Byakuya points it out that he got stabbed twice, not once.
And then Ichigo's Bankai makes him so fast that it looks like there's a swarm of Ichigos flying around. And his Superpowered Evil Side is even faster than that.
But of course Yoruichi The Goddess of Flash once took out dozens of Mooks in the blink of an eye. With her bare hands. Despite having been out of practice for roughly a century.
In Claymore the Flash Sword and Wind Cutter techniques unleash a storm of iaido-style slashes so fast that weaker characters cannot tell the user has moved, and powerful enough to disintegrate a tree in seconds.
Near the end of Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha StrikerS, Fate activates Sonic Drive and demonstrates how much faster she is now by dashing past Sette, slicing up her Boomerang Blades into itty-bitty pieces, and taking her out of commission all before she could even move out of her ready stance.
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stone Ocean
The infamous Grand Finale of the original Jojo universe climaxes when Stone Ocean's Big Bad, Enrico Pucci successfully achieves the ultimate form of his stand, Made in Heaven. It allows him to accelerate time for everything but living beings, himself excluded. This results in Pucci rapidly ramping up from agile to blindingly fast to relativistic speeds to universe cracking velocity in a few moments, while all of the heroes have to use a combination of bullet riding, water stalling and actual time stop just to keep up with him... Which is sadly nowhere near enough and he butchers them all, with Emporio alone surviving.
Yu Yu Hakusho:
Famous example: Hiei vs. Seiryu. Seiryu is fast enough to throw a hundred punches in a split second. Their fight ends in seconds, Hiei having slashed Seiryu sixteen times with his sword, before Seiryu even knew he was cut.
Hiei seems to love this trope, as he repeated something just like this in the Dark Tournament in his "fight" against Makintaro. Hiei takes out his sword. Next thing Makintaro knows, his arm's been cut off. Hiei then proceeds to hold said arm in the air, and only then does Makintaro realize what's happened, and cry out in pain.
One Piece:
Luffy upon entering Gear Second. In more recent arcs, he can enter this form quickly and exit out of it easily, so most of his attacks are in this form.
Thanks to being a skeleton Brook can Speed Blitz almost any kind of foe usually overlapping it with Flash Step. Seriously Brook got the jump on Big Mom whose an Emperor of the sea.
CP9 agents are fond of this with their Soru technique. The most basic way to assassinate someone is to Soru over to them, then use Shigan to quickly hit them with the force of a gun. Luffy actually invented Gear Second specifically to duplicate Soru's speed.
Much earlier, Kuro's ultimate attack, "Shakushi", is also a form of speed blitz, albeit far less refined, as he goes too fast to tell whether he's slicing his enemies or his crew. However, this drawback is mitigated by him being a Bad Boss who intended to kill off his crew anyway.
Sanji is also fond of this, at one point when fighting Wanze he apparently kicked the latter ten times in the face and we reader/audience didn’t even see it. Sanji dials it Up to Eleven when saving Chiffon from Charlotte Oven as Sanji moves so damn fast◊ Oven didn’t see what hit him.
Speed blitzes are also Cavendish's specialty, but only as Hakuba. When Hakuba awoke during the Corrida Colosseum match, he took out almost every remaining fighter in the blink of an eye, with only Rebecca being fast enough to avoid the brunt of his attack thanks to her own Super Speed and Haki.
Kaido gloriously proves that he is indeed faster than he looks, as curb stomps◊ Gear 4 Luffy in a split second.
Rock Lee from Naruto can do this whenever he drops his weights. He tries this on Gaara during the Chunin exams; it only fails due to Gaara being Nigh-Invulnerable compared to the other entrants.
His teammate Neji can also do this with his Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms technique. We also find out in Shippuden that this was the Fourth Hokage's preferred fighting style. Still later, we find out that the Fourth Raikage is big on speed, in addition to being just plain big. Naruto himself is fond of this, to the point that he can do things like deflect massive attacks and slash a friggin' god well before anyone can bat an eyelid.
Maken-ki!: Nearly all of Yan-Min's "fights" begin and end in a flash. Her victims literally die never knowing what hit them, or that they were even under attack since Yan-Min's speed is so exceptional that she can't be seen, nor can her presence be detected... until she stops moving. Except, by then, it's already too late.
Yaiba: The titular character is very fast and sometimes he/or his enemy can reach such a level of speed. During the last battle against Possessed Onimaru on Orochi he was so fast that he managed to dodge several Sword Beams while apparently standing still.
In Mahou Sensei Negima!, this trope is used in several ways:
First, there is "instant movement". By using it multiple times, high-level fighters can traverse large distances extremely fast to overwhelm opponents.
Next, Negi learns Magia Erebea, which not only drastically speeds him up on its own, but also allows him to absorb spells and fuse himself with them - his most common use of this is fusing with his own lightning spells to give him lightning speed.
Kenshin and Mitsunari from Sengoku Basara, both Iaijutsu Practitioners who move and attack quicker than the eye can see.
Levi aka humanity's most powerful soldier in Attack on Titan does this every time when he fights. Even Mikasa can't keep up with him.
Possible in Campione! with Godou's Raptor authority and Sun Wukong's godspeed, but very difficult. The Raptor grants Godou immense speed so it would seem perfect for this attack, but whenever Godou attempts it he discovers he lacks the fine control needed, resulting in even the simplest attacks going wide of the target. Similarly, Sun Wukong moves so fast that he can't correct in time to strike when Godou dodges at the last second.
Common in Ranma ½. Mikado Sanzenin got hit 108 times without anyone but Akane seeing it... And that's before Ranma becomes really fast, at which point he can punch someone a hundred times in the same spot with what looks like a single punch to anyone else (thankfully, the only one who got hit by that was the incredibly sturdy Ryouga, who practically requires it).
Sailor Moon has Sailor Venus, who, in the manga, has demonstrated the ability to make a Flash Step and kick her victim in the same move.
In Fist of the Blue Sky one of the opponent of the Thirties' Kenshiro (62nd successor to Hokuto Shinken and adopted uncle to the more famous one) whips the Shadowless Kick, a simple kick brought at Flash Step speeds, mentioning he learned it from the hermit Lǐ Sǎn, whose speed allowed him to defeat all his opponents but one. Then it's revealed that Lǐ Sǎn's one loss had been against Tesshin Kasumi, Hokuto Shinken's 61st successor, and Kenshiro whips out the Raibō Shin Kyaku technique that is even faster.
    Comic Books 
The Flash:
The different Flashes are fond of this method against mere mortals.
Hunter Zolomon's Time Master powers make him appear so fast that this is how he appears even to speedsters like Wally and Jay Garrick — his first battle against the latter had Zoom punching Jay the length of a city block while moving so fast Jay and Wally never even caught a glimpse of him.
Zoom once pulled this against the entire Justice League, beating the stuffing out of Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman all at the same time. They were lucky he was simply trying to escape from them, and wasn't using lethal force due to his bizarre and unpredictable code of ethics.
Superman:
The Man of Steel will often use his Super Speed to take his enemies out as quick as possible.
His Kryptonian and Daxamites allies also tend to do this. In "Girl Power", the Justice Society of America are having a tough time taking Solomon Grundy down when Supergirl dives into the battlefield and punches Grundy out in a single movement.
The Mighty Thor: Thor once shut down Quicksilver in a heartbeat when the speedster got a little too cocky.
Silver Surfer once disabled six Ergon starships in a matter of seconds in order to protect the Impossible Man.
Quicksilver in The Ultimates used this as a Running Gag, claiming he saves all his teammates' lives multiple times without them seeing it. They assume he's lying, and complains that Quicksilver should have done something to help. In turn, he asks them to check the tapes of the fight at low speed. However we see it first hand when he takes down Hurricane. The fight starts as Hawkeye is knocked over and ends before he hits the ground.
Spider-Man is one of the few non-classified speedsters who invokes this on a daily basis. Memorably in Secret Wars (1984) Spidey blitzed the entire X-Men in two pages as Super Speed + Spider-Sense is a tricky combo. Nor can we forget Spider-Man's most epic scene◊ in Civil War.
Batman:
Red Robin: Right before Flashpoint retconned both of their histories Tim Drake went to Hong Kong to help Cassandra Cain track down the young serial killer "Cricket", who had perfected speedy hits to the point that he seemed to be a low-level speedster. He managed to easily take out both of them laughing all the while.
Cassandra herself is also well-known for this tactic, taking down opponents so fast that people are convinced she's a metahuman. In truth, this stems more from a combination of her ability to predict people's actions before they happen, her incredible mental capacity that allows her to keep track of many tasks and targets at once, and her sheer mastery of hand to hand combat.
Wonder Woman's super speed is one of her best documented powers, being one of the first to be clearly depicted, and she has occasionally used it to take down opponents so quickly they're not sure what happened, but she has never done so without trying to talk them down first as violence is always a last resort for her, as it was for all Amazons of Paradise Island in The Golden Age of Comic Books.
    Fanfic 
In Pantheon: Ragnarok, Bankwell breaks Akira's arm and leg, wrenches her to the ground, and then knocks her out with a stomp to the back of the head faster than Kasumi could even track.
Hellsister Trilogy: At the height of the Apokoliptian War, a group of heroes manage to break into Darkseid's headquarters. Granny Goodness barely has time to notice Supergirl's presence before the Maid of Might angrily slaps Granny into a wall.
MLPDCSHAZAM Equestrias Mightest Mare: Scootaloo demonstrates this during the hostage crisis at Manehattan, using her Speed of Mercurius Zephyr to quickly subdue many of the terrorists within the stadium. Black Adam utilizes this just as much, using his incredible speed to outrun and maneuver around the Princesses’ attacks.
In the beginning of The Vampire of Steel, two gun-toting vampires are cornering Buffy when all of sudden Supergirl bursts into the place and pounds both vamps into the ground before they can even react.
This is Stag's preferred mode of attack in The Fifth Element; An Adventure Time Fanfic. Being a Fragile Speedster, Stag cannot take too many hits and he knows it, so he rather wisely attempts to get in as many attacks in as possible. In his fight with Finn, The Stag hands the human his first defeat, by being pretty much untouchable.
In Unlimited, the spar between Izuku, Bakugo, and Todoroki appears to outsiders like only Bakugo is attacking while Izuku is teleporting around and Todoroki is waiting to make his move. In reality, Izuku is so fast that he's been disrupting Todoroki's attacks as they form. Momo doesn't even realize Todoroki has done anything until she notices his right hand is frostbitten. Bakugo is the only one who can see Izuku move at all but is still too slow to keep up.
    Films — Live-Action 
In Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, Barry Allen takes down a gunman robbing the store he's in so fast, the milk he was holding doesn't even begin to drop before he returns to it.
Marvel Cinematic Universe:
Played straight in Avengers: Age of Ultron when Quicksilver is introduced, Cap describes him as "a blur".
Defied in Avengers: Infinity War. When Loki pulls out the knife, Ebony Maw is startled and Proxima Midnight is still aiming her deadly spear at him — they were both not quick enough to react. Thanos, however, saw it coming and stops Loki with the Space Stone before the dagger reaches his neck.
    Literature 
Possibly the most extreme example is The Shrike from the Hyperion Cantos. Late in the series, it repeatedly blitzes people who are themselves so fast that they can watch lasers crawl through the air in front of them. It's probably best not to think about the physics of that.
In detail: it destroys every light in a tunnel system nearly simultaneously, then retreats several miles in a fraction of a second so that a radar scan doesn't detect it, then runs back down, waits for its enemy to turn on her own superspeed powers, and finally pulls out her intestines before she can react. Turns out that when you blast the Shrike with a Kill Sat it kind of holds a grudge.
The Garatron in one of the Animorphs books.
The Andalites have shades of this as well. They can move their tails fast enough so that most species can't even see anything before their throat is slit by the tail's blade.
The Fighter-type specialists in Sergey Lukyanenko's Genome move and fight so fast, others (like the protagonist, a Navigator-type) barely notice that a fight broke out before one of the Fighters drops dead or incapacitated a second or two later. Needless to say, nobody but another Fighter-type can fight them at all.
One of the hats of the non-humans in The Dresden Files is super speed, Vampires and Fae especially are noted for it.
Windcrafter fights in Codex Alera all happen at the super speed they borrow from their Furies.
    Live-Action TV 
Kamen Rider has been doing this since at least Agito, what with Agito's random bouts of sudden acceleration during his Rider Kick, with his Shining Rider Kick being the more blatant in that series. Since then, Kamen Rider had used this trope on-and-off again, appearing most famously in Kamen Rider 555 (Faiz Axel, which had a 10-second limit and never uses it in quick succession) and most prolifically in Kamen Rider Kabuto, in which every Monster of the Week had Super Speed and all the Riders were equipped with the same to counter them.
Tracker: Cole could do this thanks to his alien abilities. He did have a justification for not doing it all the time, or at least the hyperspeed version of it, which was that it used a lot of energy in the process.
    Tabletop Games 
One Paranoia NPC has the mutant power of Truly Implausible Agility. At one point, there's a blur of motion— and by the time anyone works out that he's just turned someone into mincemeat, he's already got his feet back up on his desk. Turns out the Big Bad has pretty much the same power.
Monks in Dungeons & Dragons have the ability Flurry of Blows, which means they get three to five attacks (depending on the edition and level) in a round. A round lasts six seconds.
    Video Games 
Bravely Default has the Ninja ability Shippujinrai, which allows the user to attack immediately at the beginning of a turn, regardless of all other combatants' speed. True to the trope, the enemy ninja Kikyo will often Brave to use it twice in a row, taking out one of your party members before you have a chance to respond.
Sonic the Hedgehog:
The Light Speed Attack functions this way in the series. Particularly in Sonic Heroes where it's the basis and aftereffect for the "Sonic Overdrive", and is able to one-shot multiple enemies in a row, up to and including Heavy Egg Hammers.
This is also the intended way to use Sonic in the Super Smash Bros. games: He doesn't do much damage, he doesn't have much launching power, and he has rather low defense, but everything he does is blindingly fast. This puts him at Difficult, but Awesome, as anyone whose fingers can't keep up with the World's Fastest Hedgehog will struggle, but anyone who can is capable of turning Sonic into a whirlwind of attacks anywhere the opponents go, with them unable to meaningfully fight back due to them being, well, too slow.
In Eternal Fighter Zero, Mai Kawasumi can perform offensive flash steps at varying distances, or also to escape when cornered, and one super has her disappearing for a while, and reappearing on contact.
In the Pokémon games, this is the point of attacks like Mach Punch, Extremespeed, and Quick Attack which have higher priority than most other moves.
The upgraded version of Omega Rugal fought at the end of The King of Fighters '98 used much more powerful versions of Rugal's classic moves, with his God Press going from a move where he runs forward, grabs your fighter and carries them across the screen to slam them against the far wall, to a move where he stands up straight, vanishes in a blur of motion, then appears standing on the other side of your character, who takes half a dozen hits and loses a huge chunk of their life bar. The new version was appropriately called "Vanishing Rush".
Xenoblade Chronicles 2 has Jin, who demonstrates what happens when someone doesn't hold this back. Plot wise, he effortlessly wins every fight when he isn't under a massive handicap until Pneuma appears. Gameplay wise, he doesn't move around the battlefield particularly fast, but he has dodge frames for days, incredible range on his attacks, and absurd counterattack moves.
The Dragon Slayer techinque in Akane allows her to go fast enough that it's a One-Hit Kill screen-clearing attack even against the damage-resistant Elite Mooks. Cutscenes show that Akane developed the technique as a child specifically to kill her master and that she succeeded.
    Web Comics 
In this Ask Axe Cop comic, Axe Cop explains how he became the world's fastest chopper by downing a can of Red Bull and decapitating 1,000 bad guys at once.
Homestuck:
Bro Strider can move so fast that he fights Dave by using Lil' Cal as a proxy, essentially fighting using real time stop motion.
Dirk can too. Dave on the other hand is a Time Master and uses it to make his Flash Step seem faster, though he's genuinely pretty quick himself.
Nemi in Serpamia Flare has an extremely high agility stat, allowing her to have the quickest (though not necessarily the strongest) attack rate in the party. She first demonstrates her speed in combat in Chapter Two, against the Shrewters, and then again when rescuing Lac in the same chapter. In Chapter Three she frequently displays high speed - against the Sandworm, the Danrir Rebels and Sho.
Schlock Mercenary: Soldiers enhanced with certain nanite boosts can move far too fast for anyone without similar nanite packages that would still qualify as Super Soldiers themselves to handle; they simply don't have the reaction time to fight back, or even the time to perceive the attack.
Brad: So I looked at our guards instead. And then this... shadow flitted across them, and they collapsed.
     Western Animation 
The DCAU has most of Speedsters and Kryptonians. Wally West in Justice League Unlimited frequently Speed Blitzes, even bringing down Brainiac with the Speed Force and another Lex Luthor in Wally's body blitzes in everybody in the Watch Tower.
Wally West in Teen Titans as Kid Flash is just as good as his JL counterpart completely overwhelming The Hive 5.
Wally is less powerful in Young Justice though he can still speed blitz the Villain of the Week when motivated.
Quicksilver in X-Men: Evolution and Wolverine And The Xmen often brutally blitzes his foes, including the smashing Emma Frost head into a stone pillar in the latter show.
Alucard in Castlevania in the Final Battle stops using a simple Flash Step and becomes a blur of speed◊ against his father Dracula. Unfortunately, Drac just isn't having it, catching him mid-blitz and then slamming him down.

He Also Did
"Let's take a look at Home Alone 1 for the NES first. What...? This game is made by Bethesda? Like... Skyrim Bethesda? [Shows Bethesda's Wikipedia page of game lists, zooming in on Home Alone (1991) for the NES] Yeah, it actually is!"
— JonTron
As time goes by, we often stereotype writers and creators as filling certain niches. Stan Lee is Marvel Universe, Stephen King is horror (or at the very least supernatural), Arthur Conan Doyle is Sherlock Holmes... as a result, there are some times where we see somebody's name on something and go "Wait, WHAT? Are you sure it isn't just a guy with the same name?"
These are examples of well-known works (not obscure experiments) of creators that are so far out of their perceived niche that often times people don't immediately realize the person behind it.
Related to Playing Against Type, I Am Not Spock, Genre Adultery and WTH, Casting Agency? Compare Same Face, Different Name, where the creator hides the fact that he's doing something different under a new name, and Advertising by Association, where the creator's portfolio is used to hype the work. In music, Black Sheep Hit is a special case in which the aberration becomes famous. The One-Hit Wonder takes this Up to Eleven.
Examples:
Real Life Examples:
Actors 
Mahershala Ali, back when his name was Mahershalalhashbaz Gilmore, played NCAA Division I basketball at Saint Mary's College in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Michael J. Anderson, best known as the Man from Another Place in Twin Peaks, also was a programmer for NASA.
Julie Andrews also writes children's fantasy novels, and has been doing so for some time.
Rowan Atkinson is an electrical engineer and a sports car connoisseur who even appeared at Top Gear.
Major Attaway, the Genie in the Broadway version of Aladdin, actually did some anime voice acting before heading to Broadway. Notable roles include Mad Monk Urouge and White Knight Arcadios.
Richard Ayoade — Moss from The IT Crowd, Dean Learner from Garth Marenghis Darkplace — also directed quite a few music videos.
Fans of Borat may be surprised to see Sacha Baron Cohen playing supporting roles in stylized period pieces like Sweeney Todd, Les Miserables or even Hugo (albeit typically in roles that still allow for a certain amount of comic relief).
Mayim Bialik, whose first big splash was as the title character in Blossom, temporarily left acting and obtained a PhD in neuroscience. When she returned to acting with a role on The Big Bang Theory, her character Amy Farrah Fowler was also a neuroscientist.
Anime dub voice actor J. David Brimmer is also a Broadway fight choreographer.
Dan Blocker, who played "Hoss" Cartwright on Bonanza, also founded the Bonanza Steakhouse chain, which later ended up as a division of Ponderosa Steakhouse.
The late Maddie Blaustein, best known for being the original voice of Meowth in Pokémon, Yugi's grandfather in Yu-Gi-Oh!, and Jillas in the third season of Slayers, among several other voice roles was also a comics creator, being a writer for several titles including many from Milestone Comics and additionally an editor for several Marvel titles including Web of Spider-Man early in its run.
Tyler Bunch is known for his puppetry, most notably playing Treelo and Pop from Bear in the Big Blue House, Grampu from Oobi, and Elmo's dad from Sesame Street. However, he also did voiceover for Pokémon, under the pseudonym of H.D. Quinn. Among his most notable roles in the show include Hawlucha, Lysandre, and Incineroar (who he also voiced in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate).
Steve Burns, the original host of Blue's Clues, is also an indie rocker. Here he is covering a They Might Be Giants song.
Ardwight Chamberlain was known as the actor who played Ambassador Kosh in Babylon 5, but before that he was also one of the Gag Dub writers for Samurai Pizza Cats.
Jackie Chan is known worldwide for his action movies, combining martial arts with slapstick choreography. While some fans outside of southeast Asia know he's also a director and producer, very few know that he's also an accomplished singer. In fact, he did his own singing when he voiced Shang in the Chinese dub of Mulan! (Fans outside of China got to hear him sing during the Closing Ceremony of the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.)
Charlie Chaplin is certainly known best for his classic Mutual shorts and films like The Great Dictator and City Lights. Perhaps that's why so many are surprised by his very dark comedy Monsieur Verdoux, which is about a Bluebeard. No slapstick, no bittersweet limerence, no parody, just humour centered around a man who robs his many wives of their money, and collects the rest when he kills them. Another way of looking at this film: Did you know Orson Welles wrote a Chaplin movie?
Cam Clarke is a prolific voice actor of cartoons and video games. But he's also a singer, and in 1999 released the album Inside Out, a collection of Cover Versions of love songs sung from a Straight Gay man's prospective.
Misha Collins is known for being an actor, but he also did a stint in politics, set up The Random Act charity, published poems, worked as a carpenter and woodworker, and worked in construction.
Ian James Corlett is best known as a cartoon (and early in his career, anime) voice actor but he also has a fair number of writer/producer credits on cartoons, most of which are obscure outside Canada. Among these include three episodes of the Donkey Kong Country animated series.
Canadian voice actress Alyson Court, best remembered for her role as Loonette on The Big Comfy Couch, provided the English names of the Robot Masters for Mega Man X5, giving them a Guns N' Roses theme. She was also the Motion Capture Director for Resident Evil: Outbreak...and part time motion-capture actress, despite being pregnant with her son at the time. She also hosted the CBC block Get Set For Life and, as a child, played a small role in Sesame Street Presents: Follow That Bird.
Michael Crawford, who originated the title role in Andrew Lloyd Webber's The Phantom of the Opera and went on to a successful recording and concert career, was first famous as a light comedy actor, with appearances in several of Richard Lester's films (The Knackand How To Get It, A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, etc.) and a popular BBC sitcom (Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em). He also played Cornelius in the movie of Hello, Dolly!, and it's two of his musical numbers that figure prominently in WALL•E.
Elizabeth Daily is not only a prolific voice actor, but also a singer. She contributed two songs to the soundtrack of Scarface (1983): "Shake it Up" and "I'm Hot Tonight".
Porn star Dani Daniels is also an artist in the pointillism style under the name Kira Lee (link safe for work).
Patrick Dempsey, of Grey's Anatomy fame, is a race car driver in his spare time, having competed at the 24 Hours of Le Mans and 24 Hours of Daytona among other events. InTransformers: Dark of the Moon, his character is a collector, restorer and racer of vintage racing cars.
Jerry Doyle (Michael Garabaldi on Babylon 5) was a stockbroker and corporate jet pilot. After his acting career began, he became a radio talk show host.
Adrian Edmondson, best known for causing trails of destruction in The Young Ones and Bottom is also a well-known video director (for The Pogues among others) and musician with The Bad Shepherds.
Carrie Fisher was best known for playing Princess Leia in the Star Wars films. She also wrote novels, nonfiction, plays, and screenplays, and was one of the most sought-after script doctors in Hollywood, punching up the scripts for Hook, Sister Act, The Wedding Singer, and the Star Wars prequels, among others.
Fannie Flagg, actress and regular Match Game panelist, wrote the novel Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe, which would later become the film Fried Green Tomatoes. She was nominated for an Oscar for the screenplay.
Clark Gable served during World War II as a squadron commander, though he was only able to fly a few missions before his employers at MGM pulled strings to have him rotated stateside due to an incident where a piece of flak narrowly missed hitting him in the head (Gable was the A-list actor at the time). After it became clear that he was not going to be sent back into combat, he requested and received a discharge based on his being too old to serve in combat (he was 41 when the US entered the war). As it happens, his discharge papers were signed by Captain Ronald Reagan. Which was probably just as well, as Adolf Hitler was a huge fan, and offered a bounty to anyone who could bring Gable to him alive.
Holly Gauthier Frankel, the voice of Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat, was a burlesque performer for a while, marking a strange reverse case of Bleached Underpants.
Jeff Goldblum first found fame as an actor, but as a teen he was a good enough jazz pianist to find work performing in nightclubs in his hometown of Pittsburgh. Over the years his piano skills were occasionally worked into his movie and TV roles; by The New '10s he had a weekly gig at the Rockwell club in Los Angeles performing with his band The Mildred Snitzer Orchestra when he wasn't busy with acting work. They released their first album of standards in 2018 and it sold so well that their second album arrived the following year.
Danai Gurira, best known for playing Michonne on The Walking Dead, is also an acclaimed playwright whose work has been performed on Broadway.
Natalia Guseva played Alisa in Guest from the Future, and is a biochemist.
Mark Hamill is best known as Luke Skywalker from Star Wars. He has done a lot more voice work, most famously as The Joker in Batman: The Animated Series, but he also appeared in Avatar: The Last Airbender (as Fire Lord Ozai) and the English dub of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, as well as Gravity Falls (as the Shape Shifter). He also cameoed in an episode of The Simpsons as himself, and played the southern Drill Sergeant Nasty who trains Homer in the same episode.
Phil Hartman was a renowned graphic designer who came up with the Crosby, Stills & Nash logo and designed album covers for bands like Poco and REO Speedwagon. He also co-wrote the screenplay to Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, having worked with Paul Reubens in the Groundlings comedy troupe.
Several decades before appearing in twenty-three of the Carry On films, British actor Charles Hawtrey was a famous boy soprano, and his early acting career includes the now lost 1934 film Murder at Monte Carlo starring a then-little-known Australian actor called Errol Flynn (a publicity still featuring Flynn and Hawtrey is among the few pieces of evidence that the film existed).
Everyone loves how David Hayter, Solid Snake himself, is a successful screenwriter who wrote the screenplay for the first two X-Men films. He also did a draft of Watchmen and ended up being one of the credited screenwriters for that too.
David Hemmings, the star of Antonioni's Blowup, began as a boy soprano and originated the role of Miles in Britten's opera version of The Turn of the Screw. Later in his career, he directed films and many episodes of television shows.
Audrey Hepburn lived in the Netherlands as a teenager during World War II, where she supported the Dutch Resistance as a courier and raising funds for them by performing ballet. Later in life she worked extensively with UNICEF.
Bridget Hoffman, a voice actress known for voicing roles like Jeri Katou and KOS-MOS, is actually the woman used in promotional material for The Evil Dead—most notably shown the movies's iconic poster.
Mickey Jones, the go-to character actor for big, menacing biker/redneck-types (such as the mechanic in National Lampoon's Vacation) was a drummer in the 60s and 70s, working with Johnny Rivers, Kenny Rogers and most famously Bob Dylan on his chaotic 1966 European tour.
Sam Jones, best known for his portrayal of Flash Gordon, these days has his own private security firm, which provides bodyguard services for traveling in high-risk regions around the world. He served in the Marines before his acting career, which probably helps.
Monty Python alum Terry Jones was a noted history enthusiast. He's hosted a compelling three-part documentary series called The Crusades, about, well, the Crusades. Like his compatriot Palin, his sense of humor makes the subject matter more entertaining. At one point he compares the original cult of Assassins to the Monty Python's Flying Circus sketch "Kamikaze Highlanders". He also attempted to stage an interview with a goose, supposedly the direct descendant of a divinely inspired goose that served as the mascot for a crusader band. The really sad part is, that divinely inspired goose actually existed. Amusingly, he voices the audio tour at Doune Castle in Scotland, where much of Monty Python and the Holy Grail was filmed (due to budget constraints, the castle stands in for every single castle in the film besides Castle Aaaaaargh and Camelot), and has optional fun facts for Python fans in each room.
Brad Kane, most famous as the singing voice of Aladdin, is now a writer and producer and co-wrote and co-produced several episodes of Fringe. He has written the screenplay for the Daredevil film reboot, based on the "Born Again" story arc by Frank Miller. He will be credited as Brad Caleb Kane.
Boris Karloff started out as a stage-trained character in silent movies, then graduated to playing Fu Manchu, Frankenstein's monster, the Mummy, and associated mad scientists and crazy people in horror films. He was also the voice actor for the narration and the Grinch in the animated How the Grinch Stole Christmas!. He also played the titular police detective, specializing in the Locked Room Mystery, in the 1950s TV series Colonel March of Scotland Yard.
Voice actor Kiyoshi Kobayashi, best known as the voice of Daisuke Jigen in Lupin III, did some camera work for TMS Entertainment in the late '80s, most notably for AKIRA.
Hedy Lamarr (no, not Hedley) was best known as MGM's biggest star. She also had a patent for frequency-hopping spread spectrum, which would eventually lay the groundwork for communications technology that's currently used in Wi-Fi networks.
Martin Landau started out as a staff cartoonist for the New York Daily News before he moved into acting.
Hugh Laurie, an actor known for his roles on Blackadder, House, and Jeeves and Wooster, also wrote The Gun Seller, a novel which parodies the spy genre, and has released two music albums. He both wrote for and appeared in A Bit of Fry and Laurie. Granted, this is likely to happen regardless of how you get to know him. Fans of House may be surprised to find out about his earlier comedy work (or even the fact that he's actually British), while fans who got to know his hilarious performances and strange characters in Blackadder and A Bit of Fry and Laurie will likely be surprised to learn he played the lead in an American medical drama. Not to mention that in his uni days, he represented Cambridge in rowing, making their first eight for the 1980 Boat Race (which Oxford won).
Christopher Lee: Most prolific actor, opera aficionado, expert fencer, master of languages who would often dub himself, occult buff, former WWII commando, and sometime Heavy Metal singer.
Jason Lee was a prominent professional skateboarder before becoming a full-time actor.
Actor Sheldon Leonard is most familiar to modern audiences as Nick the bartender from It's a Wonderful Life ("Out you two pixies go, through the door, or out the window!"). Later, he became a prominent TV producer, in which capacity he helped create The Andy Griffith Show among other classic sitcoms. (Oh, and he was the namesake for two main characters on The Big Bang Theory.)
Chad Letts, voice of Hiro in Lunar: Eternal Blue, actually went on to become a prolific voice-over artist for commercials. Depending on how you look at it, Hiro might be the example of "he also did", but to this day he keeps it in his portfolio. He made his return to video game voice acting for Summon Night 6.
Many people don't realize that actress Lindsay Lohan has her own fashion company called 6126; she also has a brand of tanning lotion called Seven9ine.
Dolph Lundgren is a trained chemical engineer. And he does actually put it to good use.
Lee Majors is well-known as The Six Million Dollar Man and—if you happen to live in Germany—The Fall Guy. What only few people know is that he also sang the theme song for the latter show which technically makes him a country singer.
Mako is best known for his voice acting turns as Aku, Uncle Iroh, and Master Splinter but he was also known as being quite the actor in front of the camera, having been nominated for an Best Supporting Actor Oscar in 1966 for The Sand Pebbles. He also starred in the original production of Pacific Overtures.
Steve Martin, the Wild and Crazy Guy? He's also an accomplished banjo player who's performed with Earl Scruggs. He also wrote the serious novella Shopgirl, which he starred in the movie adaptation of. He also did writing on the thriller Traitor and also pens editorial pieces for The New Yorker, many of which were collected in the book Pure Drivel.
Herbert "Zeppo" Marx of the Marx Brothers invented a type of watch with a built-in heart rate monitor, as well as a new kind of heating pad. His engineering company also popularized the Marman Clamp, which is still widely used for aerospace applications.
David McCallum, most famous as Illya Kuryakin on The Man from U.N.C.L.E. and "Ducky" Mallard on NCIS, is also an accomplished composer and orchestral conductor (following in the footsteps of his father - cf. the Music section), having released four albums for Capitol Records between 1966 and 1968. One of his works, "The Edge", is one of the most sampled pieces of music in hip-hop to date.
Gates McFadden — Doctor Crusher from Star Trek: The Next Generation — was also a choreographer for the Jim Henson Workshop, working on such films as The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth. For the latter, she was credited with her first name as Cheryl McFadden.
Screen and voice actress Danica McKellar has also written six books about mathematics.
Julianne Moore wrote several successful books for children.
Martin Mull first gained notice as a comedic singer-songwriter (sometimes described as being like a Lighter and Softer counterpart of Randy Newman). He released 8 albums in The '70s, and has had a couple compilation albums of his work as well.
Frankie Muniz of Malcolm in the Middle fame is also a race car driver, and more recently, drummer for the band Kingsfoil.
George Nader (a.k.a. the guy from Robot Monster) wrote a science fiction novel.
Jerry Nelson, a puppeteer for The Muppets, was also a talented singer and songwriter who also played guitar and ukulele. He recorded an album called Truro Daydreams, released 2009. Also, before joining the Muppet team, he had a few minor/walk-on roles on TV shows in The '50s and The '60s like The Defenders (a speaking role) and Naked City, as well as some commercials around that time ("I think one was a roll-on deodorant", he claims). In addition, he may have voiced Pete and Paganini for PBS's P-Pals bumpers. While this can neither be confirmed nor denied, he did have a voice acting role on Sheep in the Big City, in 2002.
Leonard Nimoy directed Three Men and a Baby (the highest-grossing film of 1987) and The Good Mother (as well as the less-surprising Star Trek III: The Search for Spock). He also released five albums, directed music videos, acted in many non-Star Trek-related roles, and (most notably) was a successful photographer.
Nolan North is an videogame voice-acting superstar. He also played the dad to one of the main-characters in the teen drama-series ''Pretty Little Liars.
Conan O'Brien started out as a writer for The Simpsons.
Before his breakout role in Heroes, Masi Oka was a CG animator for Industrial Light & Magic who worked on all three Star Wars prequels.
Frank Oz is known as the voice of several Muppets, including Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy, Grover, and Yoda. (He was also the Hands of the Swedish Chef while Jim Henson did the head and voice.) However, he also directed Little Shop of Horrors (which, after all, uses puppetry to portray a major character), The Stepford Wives (2004) remake, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, and the original British version of Death at a Funeral.
Pauley Perrette has earned a cult following for her role as Perky Goth forensics expert Abby Sciuto on NCIS. Many people don't know that she (the actress, Perrette) actually holds a master's degree in forensic science. Play what you know, I suppose.
Karen Prell is another Muppet performer who has branched into this trope. She's best known as the voice of Red Fraggle, but she's also done computer animating gigs for Pixar and Valve Software.
Vincent Price is best known for his horror roles, but most of his early work was dramatic, and he also took a few voice acting roles, notably in The 13 Ghosts of Scooby-Doo and The Great Mouse Detective. He was also well-known as an art collector (he donated 90 pieces of art to a community college, making it the first community college to have such a collection), and as a noted gourmet cook (authoring several cookbooks, and once giving a demonstration on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson of how to poach a fish in the dishwasher). He also spoke several languages and was an opera-grade singer. During a segment on What's My Line? where the blindfolded regulars were supposed to guess his identity by listening to his voice and his answers to their questions, he sang all his answers in French to keep them from recognizing his distinctive voice. Furthermore, the monologue at the end of Michael Jackson's "Thriller" was spoken by him, including the Evil Laugh.
John C. Reilly isn't just an Oscar-nominated actor. He also sings and plays guitar. Here he is singing with Becky Stark. He also did his own drumming in Step Brothers. Furthermore, he's one of the most versatile actors out there - it's almost hard to believe that the same guy who starred in comedies like Walk Hard, Wreck-It Ralph and the aforementioned Step Brothers is the same guy who starred in deep, dramatic movies like We Need to Talk About Kevin and Magnolia.
Ariana Richards, most famous as Lex in Jurassic Park, is an accomplished professional oil painter.
John Schneider and Tom Wopat, the two leads of The Dukes of Hazzard, were both successful Country Music singers in The '80s, with the former even having four #1 hits. Schneider also appeared in the Screen-to-Stage Adaptation of Grand Hotel in 1991.
Arnold Schwarzenegger - the Terminator, Conan the Barbarian (1982), Hercules in New York, the Kindergarten Cop - was Governor of California. He also was a competitive bodybuilder.
Michael Shannon, famous for his roles in Revolutionary Road, Man of Steel and Boardwalk Empire, performs in an indie band called Corporal. Here's video proof.
Robert Shaw of Jaws and The Taking of Pelham 123 was not only an actor but an accomplished playwright, screenwriter and novelist. His best-known play, The Man in the Glass Booth, was produced on Broadway starring Donald Pleasence and then Leonard Nimoy in the title role, and also was made into a film starring Maximilian Schell.
Lily Snowden-Fine, the original voice of Peppa Pig, is also an accomplished, award-winning artist who has done pieces for Canada’s Globe and Mail and The New York Times.
Carlo Pedersoli was a musician, an inventor and an Olympic swimmer. He also was Bud Spencer.
Tyrone Savage (better known as the voice actor of Matthias, Warrior of Redwall) is also a theater director.
Sylvester Stallone is more than a muscle-packed action film actor. Many of his films from The '70s and The '80s border on one-man shows: He wrote the script, produced them, directed them and played the lead role. He is also almost solely responsible for the Saturday Night Fever sequel Staying Alive for which his brother Frank provided half the soundtrack.
Many Star Trek alumni have made the jump to the director's chair. Jonathan Frakes has directed episodes of Burn Notice, Leverage, Persons Unknown, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and Covert Affairs, as well as a couple of episodes of Castle (including the sci-fi themed ep named, "The Final Frontier"); Robert McNeill has directed many episodes of Chuck; and Roxann Dawson has directed The Closer. Dawson also has an incredibly prolific career as a TV Producer.
Jimmy Stewart: In addition to being an accomplished movie star (famous in particular for It's a Wonderful Life), he was also a private pilot, which lead to him serving in World War II, rising to the rank of Colonel and serving as a Wing Commander by war's end. He went on to serve in the Reserves during the Cold War and retired as a Brigadier General in 1968. In fact, more than a few celebrities who were eligible to serve during World War II did so.
While known for the voice of Monkey D. Luffy nowadays, in Japan, Mayumi Tanaka had also been well known for her role in the Mashin Eiyūden Wataru franchise note  as the title character.
Later in life, Shirley Temple was an ambassador to the UN, chief of protocol for the State Department, and Ambassador to Ghana and Czechoslovakia.
Jennifer Tilly, she of the big-boobed bimbo roles, has also won a bracelet in the World Series of Poker. In fact, this is a subgenre, as many actors are at least passable in poker (notably Gabe Kaplan, Dick Van Patten (whose son Vince calls the World Poker Tour), Mimi Rogers, and Lou Diamond Phillips, just to name a few).
Dick Van Dyke is well-known for his acting. He's also done 3D computer animation for years, even doing special effects for an episode of Diagnosis: Murder when there was no budget for a motorcycle crash.
Jesse Ventura, who appeared alongside Arnold Schwarzenegger in Predator, is also a bodybuilder-turned-governor, also known for his time in Professional Wrestling.
Nancy Walker played Ida Morgenstern on The Mary Tyler Moore Show (and its spinoff Rhoda), and appeared in Bounty paper towel commercials. Much of her earlier career was in Broadway musicals, and it was perhaps for this reason that she was chosen to direct the infamous movie musical Can't Stop the Music.
Justine Wanger (née Johnstone) was a Ziegfeld Follies dancer and Silent Movie actress in the 1910s and The Roaring '20s. After she quit acting, she enrolled at Columbia University, where her research on plants impressed her instructor enough that she was invited to join the team that developed the modern intravenous slow-drip technique. Later on she became a noted pathologist and endocrinologist, investigating such varied topics as syphilis, hibernation, and artificial resuscitation.
John Wayne was an uncredited producer for the Christmas featurette Santa And The Fairy Snow Queen.
Ty Webb, probably best known for his hamtastic delivery as White Knight Leo in Lunar: Eternal Blue, also had some bit roles in Serial Experiments Lain and Battle Athletes Victory. Leo remains his only major role.
Amusingly (since he played Buckaroo Banzai as mentioned below), Peter Weller has a Ph.D. in art history and has served as an adjunct faculty member at Syracuse University.
In addition to voice acting (most famously, he was the original voice of Tigger in the Disney Winnie-the-Pooh adaptations), Paul Winchell was also a puppeteer, an acupuncturist, and an inventor — his most famous inventions being the artificial heart and the blood plasma defroster.
Henry Winkler, best known for playing the Fonz from Happy Days, also wrote the Hank Zipzer series of children's books about a kid with dyslexia (which Winkler himself found out he had at 31).
Hillary Wolf, a child actress best known for playing one of the McAllister kids in the first two Home Alone movies, became an accomplished judoka, representing the US in Judo at the 1996 and 2000 Olympics.
Ian Ziering, aka Steve Sanders from Beverly Hills, 90210, played Edison Trent from Freelancer. Same goes for John Rhys-Davies, who played Gimli in The Lord of the Rings and Tobias from said game.
Many anime English dub voice actors also do ADR script writing and voice directing (and in some cases, engineering as well). There are too many examples to completely list, but some of the most prominent include Mary Elizabeth McGlynn, Tony Oliver, Wendee Lee, J. Michael Tatum, Colleen Clinkenbeard, Michael Sinterniklaas, Stephanie Sheh, Mike McFarland, Jamie Marchi, Eric Stuart, and Chris Ayres.
Quite a few Texas-based voice actors also worked for Radio Disney, such as Dean Wendt, Kara Edwards, Kyle Hebert, Susan Huber and Cherami Leigh.
    Athletes 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, in addition to 20 years as a superstar in the NBA, has worked as an actor, most notably as the co-pilot Roger Murdock in Airplane! He has also written well-regarded articles on race, religion, and politics for a number of publications, and has written or co-written over a dozen books on basketball, African-American history, and even a novel about Mycroft Holmes.
Pro bowler Chris Barnes was also a world-class miniature golfer in college. He made telecasts of both PBA and Putt-Putt events in 1989, when he was 19.
Moe Berg, a journeyman catcher with a degree from Princeton, spoke seven foreign languagesnote  and, as the joke went, could not hit in any of them. During the Second World War, he was a spy for the OSS; footage of Tokyo harbor he had taken during a goodwill tour in the 1930s was reportedly used to help plan Doolittle's Raid. In 1943 he parachuted into occupied Yugoslavia to evaluate the various resistance groups there (he reported that Tito's partisans were the most effective). Later on, he hopped around Europe while trying to convince scientists to defect to the Allies and investigating the various Axis nuclear projects. He even attended a conference in Geneva where Werner Heisenberg lectured with the authorization to assassinate him if anything in his speech indicated the Nazis were close to a working atomic weapon (fortunately for the physicist, Berg correctly determined they were not). He was the original spy catcher.
England cricketer Ian Botham is well-known among fans of the sport for his rollercoaster professional career (the high point of which was leading England to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat at Headingley in the 1981 Ashes against Australia) and colourful personal life, but his football/soccer career is not as well-known - he made 17 appearances (and scored one goal) for Yeovil Town FC and 11 appearances for Scunthorpe United FC between 1978 and 1985, at the same time as his heroics on the cricket pitch.
The list of athletes and coaches who have gone on to politics is pretty long. Most notable in this category is Bill Bradley, who made a run for President of the United States in 2000. He had a Hall of Fame career in basketball—first in college at Princeton, then a brief gig with Italian club Olimpia Milano while attending Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship, and finally with the New York Knicks in the '60s and '70s. Bradley is the first of only two players to have won titles in the NBA and EuroLeague, plus an Olympic gold medal (the other being Manu Ginóbili).
Jim Brown is an NFL Hall of Famer and is routinely mentioned in every "Who is the greatest football player of all time" debate. He is also a Hall of Famer in lacrosse, which many of his contemporaries thought was actually his best sport, and after he retired from athletics he established a successful acting career that has spanned more than four decades.
Wilt Chamberlain, in addition to his Hall of Fame basketball career, was an excellent track and field athlete; while in college he won three straight conference championships in the high jump. After retiring from basketball he turned to professional volleyball, playing that sport for several years and earning a ticket to the Volleyball Hall of Fame as well.
Denis Compton was a fixture of the England cricket team throughout the 1940s and 1950s, excelling as both a batsman and a bowler. However, he also played football for Arsenal FC, scoring 15 goals in 54 matches between 1936 and 1950. Conversely, his brother Leslie Compton is more well-remembered as a footballer, having played 253 matches for Arsenal from 1930-52 and being capped twice by England, but he also played cricket at the county level for Middlesex.note 
Jacques Demers was an hockey coach in the World Hockey Association and the National Hockey League coaching the Quebec Nordiques from 1979-80, the St. Louis Blues from 1983-86, the Detroit Red Wings from 1986-90 (winning an unheard of two consecutive Jack Adams awards in 1987 and 1988) and the Montreal Canadiens from 1992-96 (winning the team's most recent Stanley Cup in 1993), and the Tampa Bay Lightning from 1997-99. Later, he served as a hockey commentator and a Canadian senator.
Ken Dryden had a relatively short (1970–79) but spectacularly successful NHL career with the Canadiens, helping the Habs to six Stanley Cups and claiming the Vezina Trophy for the league's top goaltender five times, and getting into the Hall of Fame at his first chance in 1983. Dryden went on to work in hockey commentary (notably partnering with Al Michaels for the Miracle on Ice in 1980), law, writing, and teaching. He also served as a Canadian MP from 2004–11, and was a cabinet member for the first two of those years.
While he may soon become more famous for his current gig as a presenter of Top Gear (UK), for now Andrew "Freddie" Flintoff is still better known for his illustrious cricket career. The England star was one of the top all-rounders of the 2000s, notably achieving the rare feat of making both Lord's Honours Boards.note 
Before he was a trailblazing sports broadcaster, Marty Glickman was a star track and field athlete and an All-American football player. He was most famous for the game he did not play. During the 1936 Olympics, held in Nazi Germany, Glickman and fellow Jewish athlete Sam Stoller were withdrawn from the 4 x 100 relay and replaced with two African-American athletes (one of whom was Jesse Owens). The head of the US delegation, Avery Brundage, lobbied against any boycott, and had financial and possible ideological ties to the Nazi regime and likely wanted to spare the host embarrassment of Jews being awarded medals in front of Hitler. Sam Stoller, the other snubbed sprinter, appeared in bit parts in various movies and had a singing career as well.
In 1968 the Houston Cougars defeated the Tulsa Golden Hurricane 100-6 in the most lopsided game ever between two major college football teams. Houston's second-to-last touchdown was scored by receiver (and future country music star) Larry Gatlin. Dr. Phil has said that he played linebacker for Tulsa in the game, but confirmation for this has been elusive.
Mark "Jacko" Jackson had a decent 6-year career as a journeyman Australian Rules Football player. In Australia he became better-known for acting, advertisements and even had a novelty hit as a singer with a song called "I'm an Individual". In America, he's familiar to anyone who watched TV in the latter part of The '80s as "that big, loud Australian guy who did the Energizer commercials before they debuted the Bunny and was in some NBC action-adventure show" (The Highwayman).
Magic Johnson, prominent basketball player is a minority owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers. After basketball, he became a very successful businessman, best known for developing (in partnership with Sony) a chain of multiplex cinemas that bears his name. (He's no longer involved with the chain, however.)
Hall of Fame pitcher Randy Johnson was a drummer for Soundgarden at one point. He's also a recurring photographer at Rush concerts.
Jon Kitna played 16 years in the NFL as a journeyman quarterback. Had he not gotten the call from Dennis Erickson, he would have gone to his first calling: teaching algebra. After retiring, he is the algebra teacher and football coach at his old high school. And he didn't just teach: he asked for the hopeless cases, and turned many of them around in less than two years.
Monster Jam driver Tom Meents (the main driver of Maximum Destruction, as well as that of Goldberg and Team Meents) was a high school football player in his hometown of Paxton, Illinois - even playing in the 1984 Illinois high school football state championship game.
Hall of Fame defensive lineman Alan Page went on to become a prominent attorney, and eventually went into politics on the judicial side, running for and winning an open seat on the Minnesota Supreme Court in 1992, joining the bench in 1993. He was re-elected four times, finally leaving the bench in 2015 once he reached the state's mandatory retirement age for judges of 70.
Jackie Robinson is known for breaking Major League Baseball's color barrier in 1947 and being a landmark figure in the history of African-American Civil Rights. However, before that, he won four varsity letters at UCLA (in baseball, basketball, football, and track), played backfield on the school's football team, and won the 1940 NCAA Men's Outdoor Track and Field Championship in the long jump. Ironically, baseball was the sport he was weakest at in college, finishing with a .097 batting average (great hitters tend to be around or above the .300 mark). He also had a brief military career.
Babe Ruth's career as a pitcher. While baseball fans know this very well, it is not as well known outside of baseball fandom.
Bake Turner spent 9 seasons as a pro football wide receiver (mainly with the New York Jets). He also took a few stabs at a country music career and in 1969 was the first singer to record "Is Anybody Goin' to San Antone?", which became a #1 country hit for Charley Pride the next year.
Former Australian cricket captain Steve Waugh got an early start to being captain for Australia's Under 18's cricket team. Not too surprising, but more surprising is that the same year he was also the captain for Australia's under 18's soccer (or football to Europeans) team.
Ted Williams is widely known as one of the greatest hitters in the history of baseball: but he was also an excellent pilot (John Glenn's wingman), and a master fisherman: he was inducted into the IGFA Fishing Hall of Fame (yes, there is a fishing hall of fame).
Walter Ray Williams Jr. is a legendary champion in two sports. He's well known for being a great bowler, but he's also a champion horseshoe thrower. His nickname "Dead-Eye" comes from horseshoes, not bowling.
Mookie Wilson, the Mets outfielder best known for hitting the infamous slow roller through Bill Buckner's legs, sings gospel music and together with his family released an album.
    Comic Books and Manga 
Japanese cartoonist Fujio Akatsuka is famous in his home country for pioneering in gag manga such as Tensai Bakabon and Osomatsu-kun. He also popularized the Magical Girl genre with Himitsu no Akko-chan. Both Akko and Osomatsu debuted at the same time on different magazines and despite having very different styles they made Akatsuka a house-hold name in Japan.
Wilhelm Busch of Max and Moritz fame did more (like oil paintings, novels and serious poems) than pictured stories. But even most Germans wouldn't know that, or all of his stories.
Tokyo Babylon and X1999 is by CLAMP, the very same women that did Kidou Tenshi Angelic Layer and Cardcaptor Sakura. And then along came Chobits...
Steven Gallacci, the creator of Albedo: Erma Felna EDF, was formely an USAF illustrator before going indie and he's also a scale model collector and builder.
Geoff Johns, prolific comic writer, used to be a production assistant for Richard Donner. The two went on to collaborate for two major story arcs of Action Comics.
Before he got into comics, Jack Kirby used to be an assistant animator for Fleischer Bros Studio on Popeye and Betty Boop cartoons.
Yasuhiro Nightow, creator of Trigun and Blood Blockade Battlefront, also did art and character designs for a fantasy tactical JRPG called Energy Breaker, helped develop Revoltech figures, and is the creator of the Assemble Borg line of figures.
Tatsuya Ishida, the author of the webcomic Sinfest had a brief stint as a professional comic book artist in the mid-90's, doing the pencils for Dark Horse's Godzilla: King of the Monster and G.I. Joe Extreme.
Jeph Loeb, as Joseph Loeb III, was one of the screenwriters of the movie Commando. He also wrote the original Teen Wolf movie.
Francesco Marciuliano, the writer of the widely lambasted family-friendly syndicated comic strip Sally Forth, is also the author of Medium Large, a significantly more off-beat comic that is surprisingly funny. Although Sally Forth got rather more clever when he took it over too.
William Moulton Marston created a lie detector (but not, as is often reported, the polygraph). And Wonder Woman.
Dave Sim, author of Cerebus the Aardvark, also signed the Bill of Rights for Comics Creators, together with Richard Pini and the artists of Mirage Studios.
Dana Simpson is best known as the author of Ozy and Millie and Phoebe and Her Unicorn. Lesser known is that she's a musician, and has even uploaded songs onto YouTube.
Dan Slott, head writer for Spider-Man and mind behind stories such as Spiderverse and Superior Spider-Man, wrote a couple stories for Archie Comics' Sonic the Hedgehog.
Art Spiegelman, author of Holocaust comic Maus, invented The Garbage Pail Kids.
Richard Thompson, creator of the comic strip Cul de Sac, also did political cartoons for The Washington Post. A famous one of those cartoons compiled some of George W. Bush's odder statements into a poem called "Make the Pie Higher."
Ursula Vernon: creator of both the webcomic Digger and The Biting Pear of Salamanca.
Norio Tsukudani, creator of Himegoto also named her own Virtual Youtuber named Inuyama Tamaki, who's a crossdresser himself.
Joss Whedon, although in many cases he is writing properties that he already did on TV. Whedon also directed a episode of The Office (US) and did script doctoring work on the movies Toy Story and X-Men. He's also credited as a writer for Atlantis: The Lost Empire, Titan A.E., four episodes of Roseanne and (of course) Alien: Resurrection.
Before becoming a mainstream comic writer, Judd Winick first came to prominence as a cast member on the MTV reality TV series The Real World. He has also been involved in AIDS education, inspired by his Real World co-star Pedro Zamora.
In what could be a trope all its own, the list of people not normally identified with the Comic industry who have done comics is long:
Alfred Bester worked for DC Comics in the 40s and 50s. He is, in fact, credited with creating the Green Lantern Oath.
After leaving WWE, CM Punk began writing comics for Marvel, with his first project being a storyline for Thor.
Richard Donner did a stint co-writing on Action Comics, as mentioned above (there are arguments as to whether he actually wrote any of it, or just came up with ideas).
Harlan Ellison wrote an Avengers/Hulk crossover in the early 1970's. It introduced the (fairly) popular character of Jarella into the Hulk's life.
Mark Hamill did some work. Damn he's everywhere.
Going a bit further back, there was a lady by the name of Patricia Highsmith who wrote for two different comic companies (Fawcett and Western Comics) between 1943 and 1947. Certainly not the work she's remembered for these days.
Anthrax guitarist, Scott Ian, has written a Lobo comic.
Successful romance novelist Marjorie Liu wrote an X-Men novel in 2005, and soon started writing comics for Marvel as well.
Subversion: Contrary to the running gag at Marvel, the Ralph Macchio who works there is not the same person who appeared in The Karate Kid movies.
Actor and comedian Patton Oswalt has written quite a few comic books, including a one-shot Firefly comic featuring Wash.
Jodi Picoult, a writer of romance and family drama novels, did a stint on Wonder Woman.
Brian Posehn, standup comedian and actor, has written several issues of Deadpool.
Kevin Smith and Brad Meltzer are subversions as, unlike other "celebrity" Comic writers, they have done it more-or-less regularly (enough where it isn't that much of news if they are doing something), as opposed to many of the above examples which were either "publicity stunts" or comics they themselves created (and, in some examples, published).
    Directors and Producers 
Britt Allcroft, most famous for adapting Thomas the Tank Engine, also helmed the traditionally-animated series Magic Adventures of Mumfie, based on the books by Katherine Tozer. While the latter property is stuck under Thomas' shadow, its 1997 Compilation Movie was one of the top-selling children's videos of the year, it garnered very high ratings during its run, and there's been talks of a Post-Script Season.
Woody Allen plays the clarinet, and wrote several humorous essays and short stories.
Roger Allers, the director of the Disney epic The Lion King (1994), also directed the zany animated comedy Open Season.
Robert Altman was a prolific industrial film and TV director before finally establishing himself in feature films. He also occasionally dabbled in writing song lyrics. He wrote the lyrics for "Black Sheep", which hit #1 on the country charts in 1983 for John Anderson.
Ralph Bakshi is known for directing Deranged Animation set primarily on the streets of New York, like Fritz the Cat, Heavy Traffic, Coonskin and Hey Good Lookin' as well as the fantasy films Wizards, The Lord of the Rings, and Fire and Ice, and the fairly realistically grounded American Pop. Before Bakshi did the films that made him famous, he was an animator and director at Terrytoons studio. He even created a show for them called The Mighty Heroes.
Chuck Barris, most famous for creating The Dating Game, producing The Newlywed Game, and creating and hosting The Gong Show, also wrote the hit song "Palisades Park" for Freddy "Boom Boom" Cannon. However, he probably wasn't a CIA agent as he claims in his book (later a movie) Confessions Of A Dangerous Mind.
Steve Barron, director of the film adaptations for both Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Coneheads originally served as an assistant cameraman for Superman and A Bridge Too Far before directing several well-known '80s music videos including Dire Straits' "Money For Nothing", Toto's "Africa", Michael Jackson's "Billie Jean" and a-ha's "Take On Me". He was also an executive producer on ReBoot.
Noah Baumbach, a director known for grounded dramedies like The Squid and the Whale, Frances Ha and Marriage Story, also cowrote the screenplay for the animated family film Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted. To be fair, this was mainly to pay off his divorce from Jennifer Jason Leigh.
By way of his production company Brooksfilm, Mel Brooks produced the movie The Elephant Man, as well as the remake The Fly (1986)note . He deliberately didn't use his name in the marketing of either film because he didn't want people to think they were comedies. He also produced the film adaptation of 84 Charing Cross Road, staring Anthony Hopkins and Anne Bancroft.
Before becoming a director, Tim Burton was an animator and worked on such films as the Ralph Bakshi Lord of the Rings, TRON, The Black Cauldron (though many of his contributions were cut), and The Fox and the Hound. He was also a puppeteer for The Muppet Movie.
James Cameron is also a deep-sea explorer. In 2012, he became the third person to reach the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest part of the ocean, and the first to accomplish the trip solo.
John Carpenter is an electronic musician. This also explains why his films tend to have an electronic score rather than an orchestral one: He has made the score himself.
Christopher Cerf, the co-creator & co-producer of Between the Lions, co-wrote The Experts Speak: The Definitive Compendium of Authoritative Misinformation, an entire book revolving around the It Will Never Catch On trope. He also co-founded National Lampoon, was a composer-lyricist for Sesame Street, was a senior editor at Random House, and helped Marlo Thomas on a few of her Free to Be... specials.
Bob Clark started out directing horror movies, most notably Black Christmas (1974). Then he did Murder by Decree, a period piece about Sherlock Holmes fighting Jack the Ripper. Then he made the first two entries in the teen comedy film series Porky's. Then he made the family comedy A Christmas Story. He mostly directed family-oriented flicks until his death. Fans note that it is unfortunate that the director of A Christmas Story ended up making Baby Geniuses and its sequel.
Larry Cohen is known for writing and directing low-budget independent horror and Blaxploitation movies, and scripting big-budget action-thrillers.
Besides all those horror films, Wes Craven directed Music of the Heart.
Ryan Coogler, like Mahershala Ali, was a student athlete at Saint Mary's College in California, playing on the football team as a wide receiver. After Saint Mary's dropped their football program, he transferred to Sacramento State.
Roland Emmerich, famous for his large-scale sci-fi disaster movies like Independence Day, The Day After Tomorrow and 2012, also made Anonymous, a historical mystery thriller about who actually wrote the plays attributed to William Shakespeare.
Will Finn, director of the ill-received Home on the Range, has contributed to numerous shows and films as a storyboard artist (including Slimer! And The Real Ghostbusters, Hi Hi Puffy AmiYumi, Over the Hedge and Rock Dog) and served as a supervising animator on Beauty and the Beast for Cogsworth and Aladdin for Iago.
Marc Forster not only directed Monster's Ball and Finding Neverland but Stay, The Kite Runner, Quantum of Solace, Machine Gun Preacher and World War Z as well.
Donald F. Glut is a screenwriter (children's television) and director (exploitation films), but is best known for having written the novelization of The Empire Strikes Back. He does this apparently to support his amateur paleontology habit. He has written many books about dinosaurs, including the seven (so far) volumes of the award-winning reference series, Dinosaurs: An Encyclopedia, which are NOT for the casual dinophile, being intended for folk who know the difference between the quadrate, squamosal, occipital and jugal.
Suzanne Goldish, an anime ADR director at the L.A-based recording studio Studiopolis, and best known for directing the English dubs of K, Tiger & Bunny, and the Viz Media re-dub of Sailor Moon, as well as the modern reboot, Sailor Moon Crystal, was formerly a voice actress at the infamous 4Kids Entertainment, most notably, as Chris Thorndyke from Sonic X.
H.B. "Toby" Halicki of Gone in 60 Seconds (1974) fame made his crash-fest films borderline one-man shows. He was originally a scrapyard owner, so he supplied the vehicles used in his films himself. He wrote the scripts, he directed and produced the films, he played the main character, and he did all his stunts himself.
Jim Henson, the creator of The Muppets, did a surrealistic teleplay called The Cube in the 1960s about a man trapped in a small cube who's visited by various strange people as he tries to find his way out. Henson also wrote a screenplay for a surrealist movie titled 'Tale of Sand' (imagine a Looney Tunes episode performed live by humans and you'd basically have this movie). It was never produced in his lifetime, but it was turned into a graphic novel posthumously, with art done by Ramon Perez.
Ishiro Honda directed both the classic film Gojira and the unpopular Godzilla's Revenge. He was also an assistant director to Akira Kurosawa.
John Hughes is now primarily remembered for making some of the best-known teen films of the 1980s such as Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, Weird Science and Ferris Bueller's Day Off, becoming something of a cultural icon for Gen Xers. And then he also wrote and produced the family film Home Alone in 1990 (which ended up becoming his biggest commercial hit).
Peter Jackson, director of gore comedies like Meet the Feebles, Bad Taste and Braindead, as well as the live action The Lord of the Rings trilogy.
Spike Jonze, the director of Where the Wild Things Are and Being John Malkovich? He plays the dirty old lady in skits in the Jackass movies.
Neil Jordan, director of Oscar winning dramas like The Crying Game and Interview with the Vampire, made the comedies High Spirits and We're No Angels in The '80s.
Shusuke Kaneko directed not only the 90s Gamera trilogy, but also the live-action Death Note films and Godzilla, Mothra, King Ghidorah: Giant Monsters All-Out Attack!.
David Kirschner is responsible for creating and producing several animated childhood classics; Rose Petal Place, An American Tail, Once Upon a Forest, The Pagemaster, Cats Don't Dance. And...he also produced the Chucky movies. It's like if Don Bluth created A Nightmare on Elm Street!
Albert Lamorisse (director, producer, and writer of The Red Balloon) invented the strategy board game Risk during a family holiday in Holland in 1957.
Glen Larson, creator of Battlestar Galactica (1978), Knight Rider, Magnum, P.I. and many other shows, was also a member of the Four Preps, a vocal quartet which enjoyed some success in the late 1950s with hits such as "26 Miles (Santa Catalina)", "Big Man" and "Down by the Station", all of which he co-wrote.
Fairly well known, but Ang Lee directed: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Brokeback Mountain, Hulk (the 2003 movie), Sense and Sensibility, The Ice Storm and Ride with the Devil.
Chuck Lorre had a long music career before hitting it big as a TV producer with Two and a Half Men and The Big Bang Theory. He did lots of work on the New Wave Music scene in The '80s as a musician, songwriter and producer (including writing Debbie Harry's solo hit "French Kissin' in the USA"), then switched to music work on animated shows, composing the memorable theme for Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and co-creating the Cats & Co. segments and characters on Heathcliff and the Catillac Cats.
Sidney Lumet is best known for directing gritty, realistic dramas such as 12 Angry Men, Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon and Network. He also directed The Wiz, the film adaptation of the Broadway musical.
David Lynch is best known for directing Mind Screw films like Eraserhead, Lost Highway, Mulholland Dr. and Inland Empire. Another one of his best-known films is The Elephant Man, which is for the most part a straight forward and extremely emotional drama. He also directed the contested adaptation, Dune (1984) and The Straight Story, the latter of which is a G-rated Disney film. He has also done a number of shorts and directed a few documentaries. Oh, and he started as a painter. He's also done some rather bizarre web shorts, such as the crudely animated series Dumbland, which is... just... well... just watch it.
Seth MacFarlane is also a jazz/swing singer. He has a particularly strong reputation for it in the UK, where he's not only toured but performed several times at the very prestigious BBC Proms and had his own TV and radio specials.
Before becoming a celebrated director, Terrence Malick studied philosophy and published his own translation of one of the works of Martin Heidegger; after that he was a journalist, whose published works included an extensive obituary for Che Guevara in The New Yorker. After entering Hollywood as a screenwriter but before becoming a director with Badlands, his work included a rewrite of the script for Dirty Harry.
Sam Mendes is known to film fans for directing such varied works as American Beauty and Skyfall, but he was a big-name theatre director long before he turned his talents to film — the revival of Cabaret in The '90s that made Alan Cumming famous? That was his work. He still directs for the stage today, and as an example of his range, he went from Skyfall directly to the 2013 West End musical Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and then to a new staging of King Lear!
Cult film director Russ Meyer was also a prolific photographer for Playboy and other girlie magazines.
Mad Max director George Miller was also responsible for producing Babe, its sequel, and later the Happy Feet films. He's also a medical doctor.
Acclaimed auteur Alexander Payne, who wrote and directed films such as Sideways, About Schmidt, and Election, is also credited on the screenplays of Jurassic Park III and I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry, though little of his work on the latter film made it into the finished product.
Oren Peli, notable for writing/producing/directing the smash hit Paranormal Activity is also a video game programmer, having notably worked on the PC version of Mortal Kombat 3 and the 2007 and 2008 editions of Sony's best-selling MLB The Show. In the latter games, Peli has his own player named after him, as MLB players who are not part of the player's union cannot be represented in a MLBPA-licensed game, so the developers have fictional stand-ins using the names of various members of the programming team, Peli among them.
Sam Raimi gets this from both directions. Either you know him as the director of the Tobey Maguire Spider-Man trilogy and are surprised to find out he's also a prolific b-horror director or you're a horror fan surprised to discover the Evil Dead guy also directed a bunch of big-budget Spider-Man movies.
Horror director George Romero once did a romantic comedy titled There's Always Vanilla and directed a few episodes of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood.
Rod Serling (The Twilight Zone (1959), Night Gallery) wrote Requiem for a Heavyweight, which some have said was the point where televised drama grew a beard. He also co-wrote the original Planet of the Apes (1968) Film of the Book, which, while easily falling within the niche people think of him as being in, is often neglected, possibly because he only co-wrote it. He was also a noted boxer and the host for the game show Liar's Club.
M. Night Shyamalan, (in)famous for films with supernatural slants and shocking plot twists, co-wrote the screenplay for the first Stuart Little movie. He also made the relatively obscure Miramax film Wide Awake. He also stated in a 2013 interview that he ghost-wrote She's All That.
J. Michael Straczynski, producer/writer/director of Babylon 5 was also the screenwriter for Changeling. He was also the head writer for the first two seasons of The Real Ghostbusters and the first season of Captain Power and the Soldiers of the Future. Of course he's also done substantial work in comics, most notably on Spider-Man (see JMS' Spider-Man and One More Day) and Thor, and he then moved to Superman and Wonder Woman. Tropers who are deep into JMS lore (e.g. the dweeby fans) know that he got his start writing for Murder, She Wrote in the 8th season. He was brought in to liven things up a bit: Jessica became a part-time professor of criminology in New York, the show's tempo changed a bit, etc. If you pay attention, you can see his style stamped all over MSW.
Quentin Tarantino directed episodes of ER and a CSI episode that featured direct dialogue references to his earlier films, and a character even suffers the same fate as The Bride. He's also an actor as has appeared several movies he's directed. He also co-starred in From Dusk Till Dawn with George Clooney. Oh, and he also did uncredited work on the screenplay for It's Pat!.
François Truffaut, the legendary French film director, played the French scientist Claude Lacombe in Close Encounters of the Third Kind. This was one of his few acting roles, and his only one in a movie he didn't direct.
The Wachowskis created the Speed Racer film. Their screenplays for Assassins and Bound (1996) would also count. According to The Art of The Matrix, it was hard to get funding for the trilogy because everyone thought of them as "those [two] who did the movie with the lesbians" (Bound).
Rob Zombie's first professional job in the entertainment business was a set and prop designer for Pee-wee's Playhouse. He's also an Industrial Metal musician and successful director of horror films.
Ghost was directed by Jerry Zucker. Yes, as in Jerry Zucker of the ZAZ team that wrote and directed Airplane! The advertising for the third The Naked Gun included the following tagline: "From the brother of the director of Ghost". David Zucker also directed The Naked Gun 2½ which contains a spoof of the pottery scene in his brother's Ghost.
Edward Zwick, best known for Oscar-baiting historical epics such as Glory, The Last Samurai and Defiance as well as dramatic thrillers like The Siege and Blood Diamond, began his career directing the romantic comedy About Last Night..., and returned to the genre with Love and Other Drugs. He also produced television dramas with The Bedford Falls Company, which means he helped produce thirtysomething and My So-Called Life, among others.
    Musicians/Composers 
Bryan Adams is also a photographer who has published six books of his work, been exhibited in galleries worldwide, and won multiple awards for his fashion photography. One of his pictures of Queen Elizabeth II was used for Canadian stamps in 2004 and 2005.
Yasushi Akimoto, the producer and creator of AKB48, also created the One Missed Call horror film franchise and the magical girl manga Nurse Angel Ririka SOS.
Dr. Alban is a medical doctor and continued to worked as such after becoming a pop star.
The late Outsider Musician GG Allin was a hardcore shock rocker who smeared himself with feces in concert, but in 1989 he recorded an EP of country music that lent credence to the idea that Allin's onstage persona was mostly a put-on.
Bill Anderson, a Country Music singer known as "Whisperin' Bill" for his soft, often spoken-word delivery, has written songs for several artists from the 1960s to the present. He also hosted the game shows The Better Sex and Fandago (the former with Sarah Purcell), and formerly co-owned a franchise of a family restaurant chain called Po' Folks (which named itself after one of his songs).
Ashley Angel, who was in the boy band O-Town and also had a solo career, was also the voice of Alex in Lunar: The Silver Star.
W. H. Auden wrote librettos for Benjamin Britten's opera Paul Bunyan and Stravinsky's The Rake's Progress, the latter in collaboration with Chester Kallman. Auden and Kallman later wrote an English translation of The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny.
Singer-songwriter Hoyt Axton composed songs for everyone from Anne Murray to Ringo Starr to Three Dog Night to Steppenwolf. He also got into acting, with his most visible role to tropes being in the movie Gremlins.
The B-52s did "Revolution Earth". You know, that slow, vaguely Celtic-sounding, completely sober hope-for-the-future song with a single, female vocalist throughout?
Tony Banks, better known as a founding member of/keyboard player in the prog rock band Genesis, also did Seven: A Suite For Orchestra, an album of original classical music performed by The London Philharmonic Orchestra. He later followed this with the album Six: Pieces For Orchestra.
The Bee Gees also wrote several songs for other artists, most notably "Islands in the Stream" by Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton.
Tony Bennett is also a painter. Some of his works are displayed in San Francisco's Fairmont Hotel.
Leonard Bernstein's Candide and Mass contain minor lyrical contributions from Dorothy Parker and Paul Simon, respectively. Bernstein spent most of his career conducting symphony orchestras, but many people remember him mainly as the composer of West Side Story.
Victor Borge owned a large chicken farm in New England and was one of the major promoters of the Cornish game hen in the United States.
Aleksander Borodin, the Russian 19th-century composer most famous for his opera Prince Igor, was also a notable chemist.
John Cage, 20th-century composer known for his avant-garde works, was also an amateur mycologist (botanist specializing in mushrooms).
Nick Carr, one of the regular composers for SpongeBob SquarePants, was involved a lot with Saban Productions in the 1980s-1990s, working as a music editor on Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers, Beverly Hills Teens, C.O.P.S. and The Super Mario Bros Super Show! and as a music engineer for She-Ra: Princess of Power.
Mary Chapin Carpenter usually only wrote for herself, but she also penned Wynonna's 1994 hit "Girls with Guitars".
Ed Cobb was a bandmate of Glen Larson (as mentioned above) in The Four Preps, but he also did work in The '60s as a songwriter and Record Producer, often doing music that was far afield from the Preps' pop vocal style. He wrote and produced the Garage Rock classic "Dirty Water" by The Standells, and wrote and produced the original Soul version of "Tainted Love" by Gloria Jones, long before Soft Cell turned it into a synthpop hit.
Stewart Copeland of The Police composed music for the original Spyro trilogy, one piece of which was also used as the theme song to The Amanda Show.
cosMo, infamous for Vocaloid songs with singing that would wear out most human voices quickly, also makes non-Vocaloid songs for BEMANI games, including the infamous Sound Voltex boss song "For UltraPlayers".
David Allan Coe, a country singer best known among mainstream audiences for "You Never Even Called Me by My Name" and "The Ride" (as well as the writer of Johnny Paycheck's "Take This Job and Shove It"), also did a couple of dirty comedy albums in 1978 and 1982.
Alberto Contini of extreme metal band Bulldozer went on to become a huge figure in the Eurobeat and J-Pop genres. He has worked with Dave Rodgers multiple times (including making multiple songs for Super Eurobeat compilations) and has produced tracks for the Super Eurobeat series as well.
IOSYS is best known for their Touhou Project arranges, but they make many original songs as well, and have made a few songs for BEMANI games and anime such as Kaitou Tenshi Twin Angel and Penguin Musume.
Jill Colucci, writer of "I'm Gonna Be Somebody" and "Anymore" by Travis Tritt and "No One Else on Earth" by Wynonna, also co-wrote and sang "The Funny Things You Do", the original theme to America's Funniest Home Videos.
Alexander Courage, whose best remembered composition is the Theme Tune for Star Trek: The Original Series, had worked as an orchestrator on MGM musicals such as Annie Get Your Gun, The Band Wagon and Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.
Sonny Curtis, best known for "I Fought the Law" with The Crickets, also wrote the theme song for The Mary Tyler Moore Show.
A prolific composer of Mormon-themed music, Lex De Azevedo, produced the 1967 Garage Rock classic "Nobody But Me" by The Human Beinz.
B.G. "Buddy" DeSylva was one of Broadway's top lyricists in the 1920s, following a steady partnership with George Gershwin with an even more profitable team-up with Lew Brown and Ray Henderson. However, he gave up songwriting after the early 1930s and worked from then on mainly as a movie producer at Fox Film/20th Century Fox (for which he produced five Shirley Temple movies) and later Paramount, though he also returned to Broadway to produce a few musicals in 1939—40 and co-founded Capitol Records.
Devo is best known for "Whip It" and their "energy dome" hats. However, most people have heard a few works by lead singer Mark Mothersbaugh: all of the music on Rugrats, most Wes Anderson movies, and even the jingle from the "Get A Mac" commercials. Several members of Devo have been composing under the company Mutato Muzika since the mid-90's; Mutato Muzika is best known as the musical talent behind the Naughty Dog Crash Bandicoot series.
Before launching his immensely successful music career, Neil Diamond was a member of the NYU fencing team that won an NCAA title in 1960.
Howard Dietz was a songwriter who often worked with Arthur Schwartz, and many of their songs were featured in the Jukebox Musical movie The Band Wagon. But before he started writing songs for musicals, as a Hollywood advertising man he created the world-famous trademark of Leo the Lion. No wonder Dietz revised the lyrics of "Triplets" for the movie The Band Wagon to include the line "MGM has got a Leo." And on the subject of The Band Wagon, the Private Eye Monologue was written by Alan Jay Lerner, of all people.
During his long break from making music, Jason Donovan sang two tracks from one of Cass And Slide's albums, one of them being a Limited Lyrics Song.
He also voice acted, voicing characters in the Buzz video games, Animals United, and Boj, alongside others.
According to a comment here,he starred in a few Australian magazine ads for either K Mart or Target (it is unknown which one)in 1984(?), prior to having his Star-Making Role in Neighbours.
According to what he said in his autobiography, he also once tried scripwriting, pitching an idea that was based on his life as a popstar and his experience the dark side of fame. Wonder how that'll turn out on screen...
Cameron Duddy has directed several of Bruno Mars' music videos. He's also a musician himself, and plays bass in the Country Music band Midland.
Bob Dylan once covered a cheesy Christmas song called “Must Be Santa”. No, really. It's as hilarious as it sounds.
Sure, you've heard "Hotel California" and "Take It Easy" dozens of times. But did you know that the Eagles also did the theme song from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy? Yep, that's "Journey of the Sorcerer", from the album One of These Nights, the same album that gave us "Lyin' Eyes".
Elio, the leader of the Italian rock band Elio e le Storie Tese, not only is the lead singer and sometimes guitarist/bassist of the group; he also has a conservatory degree in transverse flute, is an electronic engineer, and a television and theatre actor as well as a voice actor (having voiced for a while Butthead for the Italian dubbing of Beavis And Butthead, among other stuff). He's also an avid baseball player, which in the soccer-obsessed Italy is quite a feat in itself. Meanwhile, his fellow band member Mangoni is an architect who also enjoyed a brief political career.
Musician Yamantaka Eye, best known as the frontman of the avant-garde band Boredoms, has done many art, most famously designing the cover for Beck's Midnite Vultures.
Singer-songwriter Amelia Fletcher, besides being effectively the mother and Trope Codifier of the twee pop genre, is also an economics professor noted for her work on competition theory, and her OBE is for services to economics.
Peter Garrett, the lead singer of the band Midnight Oil, was elected to the Australian parliament and now serves as a cabinet minister.
Leroy Gomez, lead singer of the 70s Latin-Disco band Santa Esmeralda ("Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood") played saxophone on the Elton John album Goodbye Yellow Brick Road.
Steve Goodman's writing talents were so far afield of each other, you might not realize he wrote the iconic "City of New Orleans", the farcical "You Never Even Call Me by My Name", and the Chicago Cubs anthem "Go, Cubs, Go!"
Lesley Gore, most famous as the 1960s teen singer who sang "It's My Party", "Judy's Turn To Cry", "Maybe I Know", "You Don't Own Me" and "Sunshine, Lollipops And Rainbows", emerged as a singer-songwriter in The '70s note . She co-wrote the R&B soul ballad "Love Me By Name", which was covered by Dusty Springfield and became an album track on Quincy Jones' Sounds...And Stuff Like That album, and collaborated with her brother Michael on several songs from the 1980 film Fame. She also co-wrote the song "My Secret Love" for the Grace of My Heart soundtrack.
Herbert Grönemeyer, one of the most famous German rock singers ever, also starred quite prominently in Das Boot.
George Harrison (you know, of The Beatles) also was the executive producer for Monty Python's Life of Brian after the original producers ran off scared. He also had a cameo role in the movie. The production company he formed for this, Handmade Films, made other movies in The '80s.
Victor Herbert is best remembered as an operetta composer, but he also wrote a concerto for the cello (which he played) and put his musical theatre career on hold for a few years while leading the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Frederick Hollander composed the Marlene Dietrich songs in The Blue Angel, and went on to write music for the Dr. Seuss songs in The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T.
Yes, the same James Newton Howard who played keyboards with Elton John on his albums and tours from 1975 through 1981 (he also played with Elton during his 1980 Central Park concert, and scored Elton's Gnomeo and Juliet film project years later) and scored Elton's 1987 Live In Australia album went on to score Batman Begins, The Sixth Sense, The Hunger Games and The Prince of Tides. Through Hunger Games he scored a minor pop hit with "The Hanging Tree", which featured the vocals of the franchise's star, Jennifer Lawrence. He also wrote and conducted the orchestral score to Toto's 1982 hit "I Won't Hold You Back".
Charles Ives is famous now for his innovative musical works, but had the habit of not trying hard to have his stuff performed or published in his lifetime. He was known in his day for his innovative business practices as the head of an insurance company, where he wrote such books as Life Insurance with Relation to Inheritance Tax, often considered a cornerstone of modern estate planning.
Fusion/smooth jazz keyboardist Bob James produced the first two solo albums by Kenny Loggins.
Most people know Jean-Michel Jarre for his electronic music, starting with his 1976 hit album Oxygène, and maybe for his gigantic outdoor concerts. But there's even more to him:
Jarre has been a painter since he was a kid. Back then, he sold his paintings on Paris' famous flea market claiming his big brother had made them. He doesn't even have a big brother.
He once broke the 100-meter-dash record at the Sorbonne.
He can play the guitar. In the late 60s, his role model was mostly Hank Marvin of The Shadows (little did he know that both the band and Marvin as a soloist would later cover his own big hits, or that he'd even collab with Marvin). There's even a French film, Des garçons et des filles, in which Jarre can be seen playing with his band—and singing. Almost half a century later, during the Electronica tour, he brought the guitar back, but this time heavily distorted.
Not only did he compose the very first electronic ballet for the Paris Opera (Aor, 1971), but he was also the youngest composer ever featured at the Opera back then.
He made a movie soundtrack for Les granges brûlées in 1973. It was re-released on CD in 2013 after having been a sought-after rarity for decades. (His contributions to other films have been taken from his regular albums.)
He played not exactly a small part in the French music of The '70s. He composed songs and wrote lyrics for even more, catering to artists like Christophe (whose big and often-covered hit "Les mots bleus" got lyrics from Jarre), Françoise Hardy, Patrick Juvet or Gérard Lenorman. He sometimes even produced albums for them.
The alarm sound of the very first Swatch MusiCall generation was composed by Jarre. In fact, he included a sample directly from the watch in "Chronologie 4", "5" and "8".
He has been a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador since 1993. He played his 2006 Merzouga — Water For Life concert in Morocco in this role.
He was elected CISAC president in 2013.
Sidemen for Joey Dee and the Starlighters ("The Peppermint Twist") included, at one time or another, Joe Pesci (on guitar!), Jimi Hendrix, Charles Neville of the Neville Brothers and members of The Young Rascals. Often the Ronettes would dance and sing back-up at the Peppermint Lounge.
Elton John had, prior to making it as a singer-songwriter, worked as a session musician; he played piano on the Hollies' "He Ain't Heavy, He's My Brother", and sang on low-budget soundalike covers of famous songs, which were sold in local department stores; he was basically Drew's Famous before the fact. This is the source material for the unofficial covers album, "Elton John: Chartbusters Go Pop!" Some of these covers include "In the Summertime" by Mungo Jerry, "Spirit in the Sky" by Norman Greenbaum and... "Young, Gifted and Black" by Aretha Franklin. He also came up with the story for and produced Gnomeo and Juliet.
Before becoming the lead guitarist for tool, Adam Jones was a special effects artist for several feature films such as Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Predator 2, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master and A Nightmare on Elm Street 5: The Dream Child, Ghostbusters (1984), Dances with Wolves and Jurassic Park. Not as overtly surprising as many examples, as his talents are on display in several of the band's music videos. He also co-wrote the "X-Files/30 Days Of Night" crossover comic.
Ralf Hütter of Kraftwerk is a passionate bicycle racer, as was Florian Schneider to a somewhat less extreme extent. Hütter was actually invited to accompany the Tour de France, and he created the cover to the Tour de France album himself.
Kris Kristofferson played several sports in college, including American football and Rugby Union and was later a Rhodes scholar and then a US Army Captain. Throughout his decades-long music career, he has also appeared in many films, including Convoy, the Blade trilogy and Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid.
Avril Lavigne is credited with co-writing hits for Kelly Clarkson ("Breakaway") and Miranda Cosgrove ("Dancing Crazy"). The former was nearly performed by Avril herself before she decided to give it to someone else instead.
Led Zeppelin could qualify for this trope.
While casual listeners may know them strictly for their rock songs, the band has done other songs (especially folk) that are so far removed from rock they cannot even be properly classified as the genre. Especially "That's the Way".
As for the individual members, Jimmy Page was a respected session guitarist and John Paul Jones a respected arranger in The '60s. They were instrumental in helping to create the Herman's Hermits sound, and worked on Donovan hits. Also, John Paul Jones nearly left Led Zeppelin to become... the choirmaster at Winchester Cathedral! John Bonham was, in fact, the drummer on Donovan's "Hurdy Gurdy Man", and Jimmy Page played rhythm guitar on The Kinks' debut album. Page did not, however, play lead guitar on "You Really Got Me", according to interviews given to Dave Davies despite claims to the contrary.
Fred "Too Slim" LaBour of Riders In The Sky was also one of the biggest proponents of the "Paul is Dead" theory; his contributions were him trying to spice up a review of Abbey Road he did for a college newspaper.
John Lennon contributed a sketch to 1970s stage show Oh! Calcutta!.
Till Lindemann, lead singer of Rammstein, is a certified fireworker. This shouldn't come as a surprise as he wouldn't even be allowed to pull of his on-stage pyrotechnics shenanigans otherwise.
FEUER FREI!
Before Udo Lindenberg became the "Panic President" in The '70s, he was the drummer of Klaus Doldinger's Passport. It's actually him who plays the drums on the Tatort theme. His switch from a drummer to a singer was a smooth one: In his early days as a German rock singer, he accompanied himself on the drums.
Andrew Lloyd Webber, famous for such works as Jesus Christ Superstar, Cats, and The Phantom of the Opera, also did the score for The Odessa File. Under the pseudonym Doctor Spin, he also remixed the Tetris theme.
The drummer/percussionist for Dream Theater, Mike Mangini, has said in an interview that he actually quit the music business for a short while...to pursue a career as a computer programmer working on the Patriot Missile system.
David McCallum Sr. (father of the actor of the same name) was, for many years, the concertmaster (first chair of the first violin section) of the London Philharmonic and Royal Philharmonic Orchestras. He was also the leader of Mantovani's orchestra throughout the 1960snote , was part of the orchestra that performed on The Beatles' songs "A Day in the Life" and "All You Need is Love", and gave Jimmy Page the idea to play his guitar with a cello bow during live performances of "Dazed and Confused".
Yoshikazu Mera is a countertenor who has recorded Bach cantatas and other Baroque music with the Bach Collegium Japan. He also did the Princess Mononoke Theme Tune.
Singer Johnny Mathis was a star athlete in high school, and he was attending college on an athletic scholarship when he was discovered by a Columbia Records executive while singing at a San Francisco nightclub on weekends. Later, he was invited to try out for the 1956 US Olympic team in the high jump at the same time he was scheduled to make his first album recordings in New York City; on the advice of his father he chose the latter, and six decades later he's still performing.
John Morris, Mel Brooks' Associated Composer, was also the dance arranger for a number of musicals, including Peter Pan, Bells Are Ringing, Bye Bye Birdie, Mack & Mabel, and two flops on which Brooks worked as a librettist.
Tommy Mottola went from being a manager to the president of Columbia Records, and was the discoverer/mentor/husband/Svengali/ex-husband of Mariah Carey, but before all that he attempted a singing career under the stage name T.D. Valentine. One of his songs, 1969's "Love Trap", gained a cult following on the British Northern Soul scene.
Modest Mussorgsky, most renowned as the composer of Pictures at an Exhibition and Night on Bald Mountain, spent most of his adult life employed by the Russian civil service.
Carl Orff is undoubtedly most famous as the composer of Carmina Burana; his subsequent concert works and operas never came close to its lasting acclaim. However, one major effort of Orff's later years, never intended for concert performance, was the Schulwerk musical education program for children, whose materials have been loosely adapted into many languages.
Like Herbert Grönemeyer above, Marius Müller-Westernhagen started as an actor, too. For example, he played the lead role in Theo gegen den Rest der Welt.
Brad Paisley is also an animator, and has used this skill in some of his own music videos.
Basil Poledouris appeared as an extra in several episodes of Star Trek: The Original Series – he was a Redshirt in "Obsession", a Klingon in "Errand of Mercy", and an Ekosian trooper in "Patterns Of Force".
Elvis Presley sang a lot of gospel. Listen to a satellite radio station that is all-Elvis, all-the-time and you will realize this. In fact, all three of Elvis' competitive Grammy wins were in the Gospel category. More generally, Elvis sang a lot of many different things. Besides rock 'n' roll and variety, he also sang gospel, yes, but also country, jazz, soul (listen to his Ray Charles covers), funk (If You Talk In Your Sleep), blues and many other genres. Many, many of Elvis' first singles would have Country on one side and R&B on the other, partially as a way to get white folks to listen to 'black' music.
Music/Video game related, Turbo Lover of The Protomen (who voices Dr. Wily) has another band called Cheer Up, Charlie Daniels which can only be described as innocent, happy sounding rockabilly as opposed to Orwellian and villainous (albeit laced with Double Entendres). Female lead The Gambler (the voice of Emily, Light's love interest) and lead guitarist Sir Robert Bakker (who are married in real life) formed the center of the Nashville-based, dinosaur-centric band 'Happy Birthday Amy'. Before that, The Gambler and lead singer Panther were also in yet another band together. Not to mention fourth drummer The Reanimator and second guitarist Cobra T. Washington, who also perform as part of Nashville metal band 'Destroy Destroy Destroy'... The band is like a supergroup composed of members from all across the Nashville indie music scene, fighting in an all-out last-ditch effort to save music from itself.
Queen provides several examples:
Guitarist Brian May is also an astrophysicist. At the Turn of the Millennium, he returned to his studies after a break and got his PhD. He was chancellor of Liverpool John Moores University in England from 2008 to 2013.
Bassist John Deacon is an electrical engineer who built an amplifier good enough for Brian to record with it.
Tim Staffell, the co-writer of 'Doing All Right', and the bassist for Brian May and Roger Taylor's earlier band Smile, went on to become a model maker for the first series of Thomas the Tank Engine. Among his contributions are the faces for the engines, many of the human figures, at least one truck, and, most notably, the system which enabled the engines to 'puff'.
The same Yes guitarist/keyboardist/singer Trevor Rabin from their 1980s "YesWest" lineup who co-wrote their first and only number one hit "Owner of a Lonely Heart" wrote the scores to Remember the Titans, Snakes on a Plane, Con Air and ''Armageddon".
Gerry Rafferty, best known as the singer and guitarist from Stealers Wheel and for the defining "sexy sax" song "Baker Street", was formerly (during The '60s) in a folk music duo called The Humblebums. The other person in the group was Billy Connolly, who's better known as a comedian and actor.
Sid Ramin did orchestrations for Broadway musicals such as West Side Story, Gypsy and A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, usually working in collaboration with Irwin Kostal or Robert Ginzler (all three also worked as uncredited assistants to Don Walker). He also composed the Theme Song for The Patty Duke Show, and the Top Ten Jingle that became "Music to Watch Girls By". Ramin's lyricist for the Patty Duke theme, Bob Wells, is better known for writing the words of "The Christmas Song (Chestnuts Roasting On an Open Fire)". Two other classic Christmas songs were written by composers who went on to write classic TV themes: "Silver Bells" by Jay Livingston and Ray Evans (Mister Ed), and "It's The Most Wonderful Time of The Year", co-written by George Wyle (Gilligan's Island).
Tapio Rautavaara, one of the most beloved singers in Finland, also won the Olympic gold in javelin at the 1948 London Olympics.
Mike Reid, the county singer/songwriter known for Bonnie Raitt's "I Can't Make You Love Me" and Ronnie Milsap's "Stranger in My House" (which won him a Grammy), as well as his own #1 hit "Walk on Faith", has written several award-winning musicals. Oh, and he played defensive tackle for the Cincinnati Bengals for five years.
Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov is one of the most celebrated Russian nationalist composers of the late 19th century and taught an entire generation of composers while employed by the St. Petersburg Conservatory. However, he was also an officer in the Russian Imperial Navy, and later became a civilian Inspector of Naval Bands, combining his musical and military careers.
Mary Rodgers, like her father Richard, was once a composer for Broadway musicals, one of which was Once Upon a Mattress. Then she retired from musical theatre and wrote a book called Freaky Friday. Richard Rodgers, for his part, took a break from Broadway musicals along with top orchestrator Robert Russell Bennett to write the soundtrack for Victory at Sea.
Kenny Rogers didn't only sing Country Music, he also sang Psychedelic Rock. Back in the late 60s, he had a band named First Edition. Their song "Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In)" appears in the famous Disney Acid Sequence in The Big Lebowski.
The classic hit "Come On a-My House" was written by two cousins who were much better known for their other work: Pulitzer-winning writer William Saroyan and Chipmunks creator (and the original David Seville) Ross Bagdasarian. In fact, a character (Miss Miller) actually sings the tune in The Chipmunk Adventure.
Boston founder and front man Tom Scholz is a qualified engineer (with bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering from MIT) who worked as a senior designer for Polaroid while recording his first demos. He also started his own company, Scholz Research & Development, for designing and manufacturing electronic music equipment.
Paul Shaffer, besides being the longtime bandleader/sidekick for David Letterman, was a mainstay during the first five seasons of Saturday Night Live as musician and featured player in sketches which also got him a membership in the Blues Brothers Band, starred in a short-lived 1977 sitcom called A Year at The Top, played Artie Fufkin note  in This is Spın̈al Tap, and co-wrote the campy dance anthem "It's Raining Men".
Slash, musician and songwriter of Guns N' Roses, is a pinball player and collector, who owned over twenty tables at one point. He designed the Guns N' Roses pinball game (produced by Data East) because he realized there hadn't been a music-based table in a while and decided to remedy that.
Stephen Sondheim was a writer for the series Topper. He wrote the screenplay to The Last of Sheila with Anthony Perkins, and wrote the non-musical play Getting Away With Murder with George Furth.
Yoko Shimomura is known for composing the awesome soundtracks of games series like Kingdom Hearts and the Mario & Luigi games, as well as Live A Live and the first Parasite Eve game. However, most people don't know that she also composed most of the Street Fighter II soundtrack (Sagat's theme and the Round Start and New Challenge jingles were composed by Isao Abe). This is a double subversion though, as while both the game and its soundtrack are memorable, they are usually not associated with Yoko Shimomura.
Jeremy Soule - best known for his work on the soundtracks for Baldur's Gate, The Elder Scrolls, Knights of the Old Republic, Guild Wars and Secret of Evermore also did the music for many Humongous Entertainment games, including Putt-Putt, Freddi Fish, and Pajama Sam, as well as the Harry Potter licensed games.
Voice actor Stephen Stanton was also a special effects artist on (amongst others) Last Action Hero, Starship Troopers and Armageddon.
Eric Stefani, the keyboardist for No Doubt, used to be an animator working on shows like The Simpsons, The Ren & Stimpy Show, Rugrats, and Mighty Mouse: The New Adventures.
While Jellyfish never really penetrated the mainstream consciousness, lead singer Andy Sturmer certainly has. He helped Puffy AmiYumi break into the American market by acting as their manager and composed the theme song for Teen Titans. The band itself also penned and performed an original song for an obscure Super Mario Bros. compilation album officially released by Nintendo in 1991.
Sir Arthur Sullivan would be disappointed to learn that he's now mostly known as "Gilbert and" (although probably not surprised, as it had already started in his lifetime). He wanted to be known more for his serious music and wrote a large number of hymns including "Onward, Christian Soldiers".
Tally Hall, a group known for having dark humor in their music, performed the songs in the children's cartoon Happy Monster Band.
Tatsh of BEMANI fame, well-known for songs such as "Xepher" and "RED ZONE" (the latter being a collaboration with NAOKI) is known better by Cytus fans as Persona. He also produces songs for other rhythm games, most notably Groove Coaster and Taiko no Tatsujin where he occasionally uses the 世阿弥 (zeami, officially romanized as "Xeami") handle, and produces Touhou arrangements under the circle name of TatshMusicCircle.
Dan Truman of the band Diamond Rio ("Meet in the Middle", "One More Day") has also worked in a side project that records music for missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of which he is a member.
One of the first credits for Country Music artist Keith Urban was singing backup on a live album... by INXS. He also had a cameo in the video for Alan Jackson's 1994 song "Summertime Blues", wrote a few songs (including one for Toby Keith), and played guitar on several artists' albums. He did one album in 1997 as one-third of The Ranch, and one of his last "he also did" gigs was playing guitar on Garth Brooks' Double Live, recorded at Central Park in 1998.
Voltaire is most well known for his gallows-humor music, but prior to becoming a musician in the late 1990s, he was an award-winning stop-motion animator who did commercials for IKEA, Wendy's, MTV, Nickelodeon and even a Super Bowl commercial for Budweiser. He's also published two non-fiction books and three graphic novels, as well as being a college professor at the School of Visual Arts (New York), and designing toys.
Rick Wakeman is best known as the blisteringly fast and hyper-technical organist, synth player and arranger for an earlier lineup of Yes, but he also contributed the memorable classical piano part to Cat Stevens' feel-good gospel-pop cover of "Morning Has Broken", a fact which has no doubt caused many a Yes fan an "a-ha!" moment upon learning it's him.
Mike Watt, best known as the bassist for the punk rock group Minutemen, has done a lot of session work with other artists - Mostly he's worked with groups in the punk or Alternative Rock vein, but more surprisingly he played on several songs on Kelly Clarkson's My December.
Jack White is also an upholsterer. And since this is Jack White we're talking about, he's hidden vinyl records in at least some of the furniture he's upholstered. (As of this writing none of them have ever been found.)
Hank Williams III is a Country Music singer... who also plays Hardcore Punk and Death Metal from time to time. He's made his punk influences blatantly obvious by using a modified Black Flag logo, but his albums usually fell under the line of Country Music, until his label put out his Country Metal album Hillbilly Joker without his permission, not even bothering to advertise the fact that it was a metal album. His independently-released metal albums under his own name escaped the confusion, as did his band Assjack.
John Williams, before becoming a film composer, played the piano in Henry Mancini's band, including the famous Peter Gunn riff.
"Weird Al" Yankovic compiled an album of Desi Arnaz's best musical numbers from I Love Lucy (Babalu Music) and has directed a number of music videos, both his own and others. He also has a degree in architecture. He's even a voice actor, providing voices for characters such as Cheese Sandwich in My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic, Milo in Milo Murphy's Law, Wreck-Gar in Transformers Animated, and Darkseid in Teen Titans Go!.
Yuuhei Satellite is well-known amongst Touhou fans for their Touhou arranges. Two of their members, Iceon and senya, also provide music for the BEMANI series, the former under his "Starving Trancer" and "Xceon" aliases, and the latter under her real name, Mayumi Morinaga.
Hans Zimmer, composer for Pirates of the Caribbean, The Dark Knight Trilogy, Inception, among many more films, also produced the single "The History of the World (Part 1)" by The Damned. He was credited for "overproducing" it in the original liner notes. In the early 1980s he worked with The Buggles and appears in their video for "Video Killed The Radio Star". He also wrote the cheerfully cheesy theme tune for the 1980s quiz show Going for Gold.
ZZ Top played the saxophones on "She Loves My Automobile" themselves.
    Professional Wrestling 
Both Mike Adamle and Rico were involved in American Gladiators prior to their stints in the WWE: Adamle as the main play-by-play man, and Rico as a contender. Adamle was also a NFL running back for a few years in The '70s and later a sportscaster for NBC and ABC.
André the Giant had a supporting role in The Princess Bride; his character of Fezzik was actually written specifically with him in mind.
Before WWE Tough Enough, Cameron worked as a behavioural therapist for autistic children.
Most people who know Chris Jericho may not know that he's also the singer of a metal band called Fozzy. In fact, his current entrance music in All Elite Wrestling is the song Judas.
Former WWE commentator Jonathan "The Coach" Coachman moved on to being a talking head at ESPN. Todd Grisham did likewise.
Any wrestling fans who've heard of Chris DeJoseph most likely know him best as the head writer of Lucha Underground. Some fans may remember Big Dick Johnson, the overweight male stripper played for fan disservice comedy on WWECW. Not too many know that the two are one and the same - DeJoseph was a writer for WWE before he left to write for LU.
Chad Fortune later moved on to becoming a Monster Jam driver, driving trucks like the WCW Nitro Machine, Superman, Captain America, and (currently) Soldier Fortune.
When he wasn't destroying his body in hardcore matches, Mick Foley has written a lot of #1 New York Times best sellers. He even wrote a children's Christmas book!
Lilian Garcia is also a singer and has actually performed on some WWE-related material.
Mickie James did some porn, but is also an aspiring country singer.
Jerry Lawler is perhaps best known as a long-running commentator on WWF/WWE TV, but has decades of hinterland as an actual in-ring performer behind him and may well have held more titles than any other pro wrestler. He's also a talented artist, and among other things has illustrated books for Mick Foley.
Kane is now the mayor of Knox County, Tennessee under his real name of Glenn Jacobs.
John "Bradshaw" Layfield's Corrupt Corporate Executive character was based on his real life, having invested his early paychecks wisely, so much so that he became a business contributor to CNBC and Fox News.
After wrestling, Madusa also became a driver in the Monster Jam series.
Before wrestling, Candice Michelle was a softcore porn actress.
Naomi was a cheerleader for the Orlando Magic. She's also a singer.
Randy Savage was best known in the squared circle, but he also played minor league baseball before he became a wrestler. He also release a poorly received rap album called Be a Man, which is a not so subtle Take That! toward Hulk Hogan.
Robert Teet (aka Rob Clooney) wrote a book on the poor business practices of gas station chain Speedway. No, seriously. The book, Corporate Lunacy; Behind the Scenes of America's Worst Gas Station, was self-published.
    Software 
Tarn "Toady One" Adams, creator of Dwarf Fortress and Liberal Crime Squad, has a PhD in mathematics from Stanford. He was doing a postdoc before going into software development full-time.
Ofer Alon, the lead programmer of the Vaporware Sonic the Hedgehog game Sonic X-treme for the Sega Saturn, would later found Pixologic, the developer of the digital sculpting software ZBrush.
Atlus, well-known for the controller-breakingly difficult Shin Megami Tensei and Etrian Odyssey series, published DonPachi and the Bullet Hell-popularizing DoDonPachi.
John Broomhall, co-creator of Transport Tycoon, also made the game's entire soundtrack. Now, instead of using a tracker or clicking it together in a MIDI sequencer, he played all of it by hand.
David Cage is best known as the director of a loose series of narrative-driven games such as Heavy Rain. Before founding Quantic Dream, Cage worked under his real name (David De Gruttola) as a composer, doing the soundtrack to several obscure games such as the SNES Time Cop.
John Carmack is also an aerospace engineer.
CAVE returned the favor Atlus did for them by developing Shin Megami Tensei IMAGINE.
Would you believe that the first game made by the people behind Cellar Door Games, of Rogue Legacy fame, was the scatological text adventure Don't Shit Your Pants?
YouTube Pooper Electricthecheese helped develop LEGO City Undercover.
Steven Frank, the creator of Spamusement, is also one of the developers of Apple Macintosh FTP app Transmit.
Stefan Gagne, best known by us as the author of Sailor Nothing, best known to the Internets at large as the creator of The Really Big Button That Doesn't Do Anything. Or as the creator of a bunch of popular Neverwinter Nights modules. Or as the creator of the gaming parody, Pong Kombat. Or for his epic Slayer Reflect/Chaos/Rebirth trilogy or for the creation of MTCFF Ultra. More recently he's gone into original fiction released for free online with Unreal Estate and Anachronauts.
The writers of Happy Tree Friends wrote the script for the bloody Wii game MadWorld...as well as the E-rated Sonic Colors. Another designer contributing to MadWorld was Yasumi Matsuno, better known for the dark fantasy worlds of Tactics Ogre and Vagrant Story.
Koji Igarashi alias "IGA", and Mikio Saito alias "Metal Yuhki", both big names in the Castlevania series (the first as the man in charge of the series, and the second as the music composer of popular entry Castlevania: Rondo of Blood), are respectively the scenario writer of Tokimeki Memorial 1, and the music producer and composer of the Tokimeki Memorial series.
Star Battle, one of several Arcade Game clones (Galaxian, in this case) released by Commodore on VIC-20 cartridges, has hidden ROM data crediting none other than Satoru Iwata as the programmer.
Hideki Kamiya is the game designer responsible for Resident Evil 2, the Viewtiful Joe series, Devil May Cry, Ōkami and Bayonetta. He also voiced Godot.
Hideo Kojima, the creative mind behind the Metal Gear series, Snatcher, Policenauts, Zone of the Enders and Boktai, was also the drama director and producer of the "Drama Series" games of the Dating Sim Tokimeki Memorial.
Michael Land who composed the wacky music of Monkey Island also made the soulful and beautiful music for The Dig.
Al Lowe, he of Leisure Suit Larry fame, started off developing Disney licensed games. After he became famous for LSL, he then did...the kid-friendly Torin's Passage. He is also a jazz musician who made the Leisure Suit Larry soundtrack himself.
Naoki Maeda of Dance Dance Revolution fame was one of the composers of the Salamander 2 soundtrack. And if some of the original CROSS×BEATS songs sound familiar, they should; the series is produced by Naoki, with some other former Konami musicians like jun and SLAKE also coming along for the ride.
Puresabe, known for Rockman 4 Minus Infinity, also did the Rockman New Year hacks. The 2015 hack featured Sheep Man (goat). The 2016 Hack featured Spark Mandrill (Monkey). The 2017 Hack featured Storm Eagle and Chill Penguin (Rooster). The thing that makes the 2016 and 2017 hacks unique is that they're based on Mega Man X1 for SNES. Turns out Puresabe does more than Mega Man NES hacks.
Dan Salvato, a developer of Project M and a competitive Link player of both Super Smash Bros. Melee and Project M, is also the lead developer of the popular Dating Sim/horror game Doki Doki Literature Club!. He also made a legendarily difficult Super Mario Maker level that drove Egoraptor to near-insanity in an episode of Game Grumps.
Chris Sawyer and John Broomhall who developed Transport Tycoon are also both jazz musicians enough to have composed the entire multi-genre soundtrack to the game and played it by hand.
Before becoming a game designer and founding Access Games, Hidetaka "Swery" Suehiro directed cutscenes for The Last Blade and designed levels for Tomba! 2.
Toys for Bob, best known for developing the first two Star Control games and some Skylanders games, also made licensed games for the first two Madagascar movies, as well as Disney's Extreme Skate Adventure. They also made Majokko Daisakusen: Little Witching Mischiefs, a crossover game featuring a couple of Magical Girls released only for Japan in February 4, 1999...in spite of the fact that Toys fir Bob is an American video game developer.
Famed developer Treasure was responsible for McDonald's Treasure Land Adventure; it shows that they were working on it at the same time as Gunstar Heroes. For a game based on fast food, it's a solid platformer, and not at all a cakewalk.
Nobuo Uematsu, known for his legendary Final Fantasy soundtracks, also worked on the soundtracks for Rad Racer and a number of no-name Square games before scoring Final Fantasy I. His more recent contributions include scoring mobile games such as Granblue Fantasy and Terra Battle.
Roberta Williams is known mostly for directing a bunch of kid-friendly -Quest games. However, she's allegedly said her favourite project to work on was the not-so-kid-friendly Phantasmagoria.
The SMWCentral user Yogui is known in most hacking communities for the Something series, which are known for their gimmicky, yet well made levels. He also created the very Vanilla Super Mario Ocean and participated in a few contests and collab hacks.
Jun'ya "ZUN" Oota of Touhou fame had a hand in a few Taito games. He is credited as a software designer for Exit and had a hand in Graffiti Kingdom, even having Reimu make a cameo as the "Flying Maiden".
The Doom community has had a few examples over the years. Just within Doom itself is B.P.R.D. - for a more casual fan of the series who's familiar with the extensive custom content but not following the people behind it, it can be a shock to realize the guy who made things like "nuts.wad" (a really big room with more monsters than the original game can handle, let alone any player could kill with the equipment provided) and "Doom 2:2 - The Time Travel Saga" (simply adds a second number II to the title graphic on the pause menu) was named "Mapper of the Year" by Doomworld in 2004 and at least had a hand in well-regarded map sets like "Grove", the second "Community Chest" project, and "Equinox".
    Writers/Poets 
Maxwell Anderson mostly wrote serious dramas like Anne of the Thousand Days, but he also wrote the musical Knickerbocker Holiday, including the lyrics of its Breakaway Pop Hit "September Song."
Isaac Asimov is known as a science (and science fiction) writer, but also dabbled in lots of other genres, and published books on history, The Bible, William Shakespeare, Gilbert and Sullivan, and several collections of dirty Limericks. His work can be found in nine of the ten categories of the Dewey Decimal System — all ten, if forewords count. Asimov was also a real scientist, with a PhD in chemistry from Columbia, before he became a full time writer.
Dave Barry is known most for his humorous books and newspaper columns, and Ridley Pearson is known very well for his thriller and suspense novels. You wouldn't expect these two to overlap in any way, right? Well, not only has Ridley Pearson written several children's books by himself (namely The Kingdom Keepers series and Steel Trapp), but he and Barry have actually written books together, including the popular Peter and the Starcatchers series and Science Fair.
Lewis Black, he of the foul-mouthed, politically-bent standup comedy routine, is an accomplished playwright, having written over 40 plays.
William Blake not only wrote his own poetry, with his own illustrations, but created a method of etching the illustrations which was later adapted and used to illustrate newspapers.
Pierre Boulle, the French novelist most famous for writing The Bridge Over The River Kwai, also wrote Planet of the Apes.
Ray Bradbury wrote a great deal of non-SF in addition to his famous SF works. He also wrote and narrated The Halloween Tree, and adapted Moby-Dick into a screenplay for John Huston's film.
Kir Bulychev (real name Igor Mozheiko), the most famous Soviet child Science Fiction author, was also a prominent historian, specialist on medieval Burma and author of several popular history works. He also authored several books about his travels around the world and had an amateur interest in painting, even personally drawing covers for his several books.
Anthony Burgess, the writer of A Clockwork Orange, is described by The Other Wiki as a "novelist, critic, composer, librettist, poet, playwright, screenwriter, essayist, travel writer, broadcaster, translator, linguist, [and] educationalist"; he wrote one of the most popular English translations of Cyrano de Bergerac. (In fact, he didn't like A Clockwork Orange very much - he once described as "something I knocked off for money in three weeks.")
Jack Butler, creator of the Evil Overlord List, is primarily known for stories in the Urban Horror genre featuring loads of Gorn, drugs, and blatantly graphic sex, but he's also published six cookbooks and a children's book about a teddy bear protecting its child from the monster under the bed.
Orson Scott Card wrote the famous Insult Fights from the Monkey Island games, as well as the script for The Dig. He also wrote for Marvel Comics. He was also a conservative political columnist before he became well-known for his science fiction novels.
Anton Chekhov was a famous doctor and considered literature something more of a hobby.
G. K. Chesterton, the famous detective story author, wrote books and articles on religion, mysticism...and just about every other literary genre. Including plays and poetry. In fact, during his lifetime he was best known as a journalist and poet.
Agatha Christie wrote romance novels under the Pen Name Mary Westmacott. She also wrote a handful of supernatural horror stories.
Noam Chomsky, known to the world at large as a superstar of radical leftist politics, made his name and academic reputation as a linguist, a field in which his theories are considered to be among the most influential of the 20th century.
John D. Clark wrote two short science fiction stories in the 1930s, one of which may hold the minor distinction of being the first hard-SF (for Astounding Stories) story to feature antimatter, and collaborated with Robert E. Howard to create a world map and timeline for Conan the Barbarian's career to date. He was also on friendly terms with Isaac Asimov, L. Ron Hubbard and other members of the Trapdoor Spiders. His day job? A chemist specialising in rocket propellants.
Suzanne Collins, before striking it big with The Hunger Games, was a writer on Clarissa Explains It All, The Mystery Files of Shelby Woo, and Generation O! among others. And if those don't seem all that far out of range, consider that she also wrote for Little Bear and was actually head writer for Clifford the Big Red Dog spin-off/prequel Clifford's Puppy Days. May the odds be ever in your favor.◊
Ray Comfort, author of The Way Of The Master Christian book series, also wrote a humor book on plane travel.
Michael Crichton, of Jurassic Park and The Andromeda Strain fame, also created ER. Of course, he had a medical degree; he just never practiced due to publishing a runaway bestseller novel when he was barely out of medical school.
Roald Dahl, today best-known for his children's books, was chosen to write the screenplay to You Only Live Twice on the basis of his skill as a writer of war stories and his friendship with Ian Fleming. Dahl also wrote the screenplay for the film version of Chitty Chitty Bang Bangnote , and helped devise a therapy regimen for his then-wife Patricia Neal after she was debilitated by a stroke. He also helped to invent the Wade-Dahl-Till valve: a medical device used to treat hydrocephalus ("water in the brain") by draining the excess fluid out of the skull. He was also an ace in World War II and spied for the UK... on the US.
Charles Darwin, most famous for the theory of natural selection, also published a book on earthworms. At the time, it sold better than On the Origin of Species.
Darwin's first scientific monograph discussed the formation of coral reefs from subsiding volcanoes. Keep in mind this was before the discovery of plate tectonics.
Richard Dawkins, a British zoologist who is now probably most known for his outspoken atheism and criticism of religion, is also known in the scientific community for his contributions to the gene-centered view of evolution. He also coined the term "meme".
Dick DeBartolo (probably best known for having written in every issue of Magazine/MAD magazine since 1966) also wrote for many game shows during the 1960s and 70s, and is directly credited with adding the Double Entendre vibe to the questions in Match Game that made it popular. He also co-hosted a consumer technology netcast called The Giz Wiz from 2006 to 2013, and regularly appears as "The Gadget Man" on ABC's Live with Kelly and Michael (originally Live with Regis and Kathy Lee).
August Derleth is best known for founding Arkham House and writing various Lovecraft Lite short stories with a controversial Alternate Character Interpretation of the denizens of the Cthulhu Mythos. He also penned several volumes of detective stories starring Solar Pons, a Captain Ersatz of Sherlock Holmes.
The Reverend Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, a famous Victorian British mathematician and Anglican deacon, author of some prominent works on logic, is also known under his pen name Lewis Carroll, author of Alice in Wonderland and several other children's books. He also published a notable essay on parliamentary representation, patented several inventions (including an early version of Scrabble), and was a prolific photographer.
Arthur Conan Doyle's Professor Challenger series of books, most notably The Lost World. (His historical novels, which he thought of as being his "real" work, are an even greater departure from Sherlock Holmes, but nobody ever reads them and goes "Wait, what?" because nobody ever reads them.) Late in his life he became a devoted spiritualist mystic and wrote several non-fiction books on the subject. It would be hard to make a sharper contrast to the ever-rational Sherlock Holmes if one deliberately tried.
Gustave Flaubert two most famous novels are Madame Bovary and Salammbô. The former is a Romantic novel Deconstruction focusing on a 19th century bored French middle-class wife trying to flee from reality into unrealistic romantic fantsy. The latter is a Sword & Sandal novel set in Ancient Carthage during the Mercenary War and full of Gorn and betrayals.
Ian Fleming also did a travelogue book, entitled Thrilling Cities. To enhance sales, he put a James Bond short story "007 in New York" at the end of it. James Bond's gadget-filled Aston-Martin was the literary cousin of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, a children's book also authored by Fleming.
C. S. Forester wrote both the Horatio Hornblower books and The African Queen. He also wrote Payment Deferred, a crime novel that was adapted into a play and movie.
E. M. Forster, author of Howards End and A Passage to India, also co-authored the libretto of Billy Budd.
Frederick Forsyth, best-known for writing spy thrillers like The Day of the Jackal, also wrote The Phantom of Manhattan, a sequel to The Phantom of the Opera.
Nikolai Gogol also wrote books on religion and mysticism.
Alexander Griboyedov, a Russian 19th century playwright, was more famous at the time as a brilliant diplomat. And also wrote music.
Nat Hentoff worked as a journalist for over fifty years, wrote novels for both adults and teenagers, was a noted expert on Jazz and was a strong advocate for civil liberties.
James Leo Herlihy, best known as the author of the original novel of Midnight Cowboy, did a tiny bit of acting on the side, with the 1963 film In the French Style (starring Jean Seberg) as his most substantial role.
Hoffmann von Fallerleben wrote the National Anthem of Germany, but also a lot of children's songs, of which many are still popular in Germany.
L. Ron Hubbard, the sci-fi author who wrote Battlefield Earth, is the same author of Dianetics, a self-help book, and is the founder of a certain religion associated with Dianetics.
Nobel laureate Kazuo Ishiguro, best known for novels including An Artist of the Floating World and The Remains of the Day, has also written songs for the jazz singer Stacy Kent.
Brian Jacques, best known for authoring the Young Adult Fantasy Series Redwall, wrote a lot of and portraits about his hometown Liverpool and Merseyside and a couple of autobiographical pieces about his life there, in which he worked as a police constable, a lorry driver, a merchant sailor, a bus driver, a longshoreman, a boxer, a postmaster, a milkman, a railway fireman, a stand-up comedian, a folk singer, a radio host and as a writer of humorous short stories.
George S. Kaufman, like many characters in plays he wrote, was an avid bridge player, and wrote the introduction to Charles Goren's Better Bridge for Better Players.
Stephen King wrote The Shawshank Redemption and the story that inspired the movie Stand by Me. He also wrote Hearts in Atlantis, a compilation of novellas one of which was adapted into the movie of that name. Stephen King also wrote The Green Mile, and is a regular columnist for Entertainment Weekly and wrote a few non-fiction books, one about writing, one about the Boston Red Sox.
Thriller novelist Dean Koontz has scripted (but not drawn) In Odd We Trust, a manga-style comic book prequel to his Odd Thomas series.
In addition to being one of the most acclaimed science-fiction and fantasy authors of the 20th century, Ursula K. Le Guin also authored one English translation of the Tao Te Ching, complete with her own commentary. Though perhaps it's not so surprising, considering she's a practicing Taoist herself.
Mikhail Lermontov, a Russian 19th-century poet, was also a talented landscape painter.
H. P. Lovecraft wrote a few travelogues, despite usually being considered a recluse who rarely left his home (which isn't true. While he did spend most of his life in Providence and didn't socialise much, he did often travel to meet his friends in other parts of the country). He also wrote the comic short story "Sweet Ermengarde", a parody of romantic melodrama, and Waste Paper, a painfully spot-on parody of "The Waste Land." In a vaguely related vein, he responded to a friend's teasing about his teetotaling by writing "Old Bugs", a parodically exaggerated Scare 'Em Straight story about alcohol.
He also wrote at least 75,000 letters over the course of his life. And that's the low estimate!
He also had a reasonably good singing voice, but was too shy to sing in front of other people.
He once ghostwrote a short story called Imprisoned with the Pharaohs for Harry Houdini (yes, that Harry Houdini).
Tim Maki is both a writer of science fiction/fantasy and a professional silversmith.
Vladimir Mayakovskiy, a famous Soviet poet, was also a futuristic artist when he was young.
Vladimir Nabokov was also an entomologist, and he extensively studied a boring butterfly tribe, the Polyommatini.
bpNichol, the Canadian concrete poet, also wrote episodes of Fraggle Rock and The Care Bears Family. He also filled in for fellow He Also Did alumnus Dennis Lee (of Alligator Pie fame) in writing lyrics for the former show.
Friedrich Nietzsche is a very famous writer and philosopher, but fewer people know that he was also a composer (although aspects of music do figure prominently in some of his philosophical texts), mostly writing songs for voice and piano.
Nostradamus, an apothecary by trade, wrote a number of supposed "prophecies" now being used by his followers to (again supposedly) predict future events. He was also an avid maker of jams and jellies. One of his most enduring recipes appears to be the one for cherry jam.
Naomi Novik, author of the Temeraire series of novels, was originally a prolific writer of Transformers: Generation 1 Fan Fiction.
Mystery novelist Anne Perry's real name is Juliet Hulme. That's right, she's the same Juliet Hulme of Parke-Hulme murder case fame, which was the basis of the film Heavenly Creatures. She has also written a religious-themed fantasy novel.
Edgar Allan Poe helped invent detective fiction. He also wrote a lot of satirical/parodic short stories (leading some to wonder how serious some of his serious writing really was) and a long philosophical-scientific treatise. He was a pretty versatile guy
Alexander Pushkin, a famous Russian poet, also wrote The History of Pugachev, pretty solid historical study, which is still relevant today.
Mario Puzo wrote The Godfather and also co-wrote the screenplay for Superman and Superman II
Arthur Ransome wrote the famous British children's adventure series Swallows and Amazons, as well as its Expanded Universe cousins; meanwhile he was a spy and Double Agent, and wrote several instructional manuals of fighting and survival skills.
The Philip Reeve who wrote the Mortal Engines quartet (a cynical, Black and Grey Morality-laden Used Future set After the End) and Here Lies Arthur, a Demythification that deconstructs Arthurian legend, also wrote Larklight and sequels, a hilarious and absurd Affectionate Parody of things like Treasure Island which runs on British Stuffiness, Rule of Funny, and occasional Rule of Cool. And good always wins. Yes...yes, they are by the same person.
Rick Riordan: Long before creating Percy Jackson and the Olympians and its universe, he actually got his start with the Tres Navarre series (seven books from 1997-2008), an adult mystery series about Texan private eye Jackson "Tres" Navarre. He also wrote the 2003 standalone thriller novel Cold Springs.
Morrie Ryskind, the co-librettist of Animal Crackers and Of Thee I Sing, also helped found the conservative magazine National Review.
Leopold von Sacher-Masoch is mostly known as the author of Venus in Furs and, relatedly, as the namesake of masochism. He was actually a prolific and, in his lifetime, well-regarded author of serious novels (like The New Job), short stories, and journalism.
Dorothy L. Sayers, most famous for writing the Lord Peter Wimsey series of detective novels, also oversaw one of the most widely used English translations of Dante's Divine Comedy (in fact, she considered the translation her best work as a writer) and provided the accompanying jingles to John Gilroy's famous "zoo" series of Guinness advertisements.
Dr. Seuss used to be a political cartoonist during World War II, creating many hilarious cartoons about the defeat of Hitler and more than a few horrifying caricatures of Japanese people. Because of his job in the war, he held the rank of Captain. He was also the co-creator of the Private Snafu shorts in collaboration with the Warner Bros. crew, and directed the 1953 film The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T.
Shel Silverstein wrote children's poetry and picture books such as The Giving Tree and Where the Sidewalk Ends. He also wrote novelty songs such as: "The Great Smoke Off", "The Cover of Rolling Stone", "A Boy Named Sue" and its sequel "The Father of a Boy Named Sue". He was also a regular at the Playboy Mansion.
In addition to writing The Jungle, Upton Sinclair also wrote the Children's book The Gnome-Mobile.
R.L. Stine, well known for his horror books such as the Fear Street and Goosebumps series, also published various humor books (such as the novelization of Spaceballs) and was the creator and writer for Nickelodeon show Eureeka's Castle.
As a teenager, Charles Stross submitted several monsters to the "Fiend Factory" column in White Dwarf magazine. These monsters (which included the death knight, githyanki, githzerai, and slaadi) were eventually included in the Fiend Folio hardback manual and have become staples of Dungeons & Dragons campaigns, scenarios, and tie-ins ever since.
Walter Tevis, author of The Hustler and The Color of Money, also wrote well-regarded science fiction novels with The Man Who Fell to Earth and Mockingbird.
J. R. R. Tolkien is most famous for his fantasy novels, but his day job was as a philologist, translator, and university professor; he wrote one of the seminal articles on the subject of the Old English poem Beowulf, translated part of the Jerusalem Bible, did one of the best-known translations of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, and contributed to the Oxford English Dictionary. He also wrote non-The Lord of the Rings fantasy stories such as Smith of Wootton Major and Farmer Giles of Ham. On the side, he was also an amateur philosopher and Catholic apologist.
Mark Twain was probably diverse enough where nothing would surprise those familiar with him, but those not familiar would probably be surprised to hear about how he wrote travelogues. His first two books were travelogues (The Innocents Abroad, Roughing It) and The Innocents Abroad was his best-selling book while he was alive.
Bill Watterson, creator of Calvin and Hobbes, majored in political science and started his career as a political cartoonist.
Dennis Wheatley wrote horror novels and thrillers that were popular from the 1930s to the 1970s, though he's not particularly well known today. However, he only started writing because his family's wine business was failing. He sold the wine business and took up writing instead. Before that, he had been a member of the British Merchant Navy and soldier in World War One. In World War II, Wheatley worked with the British War Office, helping them with their plans and writing papers for them. He took part in the planning of the invasion of Normandy, which led to him being awarded a U.S. Bronze Star after the war's end. He was also an expert on Satanism and the occult, and wrote a series of nonfiction paperbacks on those subjects. Yeah.
E. B. White, author of beloved children's books Stuart Little and Charlotte's Web, is also the "White" of "Strunk and White", the handbook more formally known as The Elements of Style. He also worked for The New Yorker, where, among other things, he wrote captions for cartoons, including the famous one about a Picky Eater and broccoli.
P. G. Wodehouse is nowadays better known for his light novels than for his work on musical comedies; the song lyrics he wrote for these shows received considerable praise.
Aside from writing acclaimed speculative fiction novels such as the Book of the New Sun and Book of the Long Sun, Gene Wolfe also developed the machine that cooks Pringles potato chips.
Apparently, the Paul Zindel who won a Pulitzer Prize for the play The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds is the same one who wrote such horror novels as Loch, The Doom Stone and Reef of Death.
    Other 
Decades after his famous space mission, Buzz Aldrin co-wrote two sci-fi novels with John Barnes, Encounter With Tiber (1996) and The Return (2001).
Before becoming a Hollywood makeup artist, Rick Baker was a stop motion animator for Art Clokey on Gumby and Davey and Goliath.
Saul Bass may be best known for his modernistic movie posters and widely-imitated Artistic Titles, but his design office was at many times more involved in ongoing "corporate identity" programs for a wide variety of American companies and a few Japanese ones, from food companies to paper products companies to airlines (Continental, United, Frontier) to gas stations (Exxon/Esso, Sohio/BP, JOMO). He also directed a number of short documentary/non-fiction films, including the 1968 Academy Award winner "Why Man Creates."
Bee Train, the animators for Noir and the animated scenes in Xenogears, also did the animation for the Animated Adaptation of Po Po Lo Crois, a Widget Series with a drastically different artstyle.
Joe Bob Briggs, besides his tongue-in-cheek movie reviews and hosting stint on Joe Bob's Drive-in Theater, has done a more diverse body of work under his real name, John Bloom, including political and religious commentary, and even a True Crime book (1984's Evidence of Love: The Candy Montgomery Story).
George W. Bush was once a part owner of the Texas Rangers, and a pilot in the Air National Guard.
Whittaker Chambers, the ex-Communist-turned-conservative intellectual who was the famed star witness against accused spy Alger Hiss at his 1950 trial, was also responsible for the original English translation of Felix Salten's novel Bambi.
Winston Churchill, besides his work in politics, was an accomplished historian, author, painter, bricklayer (true, he was an active member of one of the building trades trade unions!) and soldier who helped come up with the idea for the tank.
Journalist and Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson was a voice actor in the BBC Children's Hour radio adaptations of Anthony Buckeridge's Jennings novels in the early 1970s, before his voice broke.note 
Neil Cicierega has done massive amounts of work that is popular online. In his very early years of being active online, he created the Animutation genre of flash animations, helping to kickstart flash animation online. He also made the famous Potter Puppet Pals series of videos that is popular within the Harry Potter fandom. Albino Black Sheep fans might know him as the creator of the song "The Ultimate Showdown of Ultimate Destiny". He also is the creator of the "Mouth" series of mashups which mainly use "Smash Mouth" samples in almost every song in two out of three albums, namely "All Star".
Bill Clinton. Well, you know Bill can play a pretty good sax. But did you know that he was a Rugby Union flanker whilst at Oxford? And that he was within a hairsbreadth of playing in the Oxford v Cambridge match.
Ron Cyrus (father of Billy Ray, grandfather of Miley) could count as this. Kentucky state Senator for 21 years, Little League coach, Armco steel rigger, Kentucky Colonel, executive secretary and treasurer of the Kentucky AFL-CIO, served in the U.S. Air Force in Japan, worked as a regional representative for Alan Greenspan of the Federal Reserve Board, sang bluegrass with the Crownsmen Quartet, and was a member of the Kentucky Mountain Saddle Horse Association.
Charles G. Dawes would fit under this trope if it weren't for the fact that, as Calvin Coolidge's Vice President, no one knows who he is anyway. But he wrote a tune he called 'Melody in A Major,' which later was given lyrics by Carl Sigman and became a No. 1 hit for Tommy Edwards in 1958. Yes, a No. 1 hit song was basically co-written by a US Vice President.
Noted film critic Roger Ebert co-wrote the screenplay for notorious shlock-fest Beyond the Valley of the Dolls. Even more jarringly, among his bibliography of film guides, criticism and collections of reviews is a cookbook for electric rice-cookers.
Prolific game show host Geoff Edwards (best known as the host of Treasure Hunt US; Jackpot and The Big Spin among others), worked as a radio news reporter early in his career, including being assigned to cover the scheduled transfer of Lee Harvey Oswald (charged with the assassination of John F. Kennedy as well as the murder of Dallas cop J.D. Tippit) only for Oswald to himself by murdered in the jail by local strip club owner Jack Ruby; and was interviewed by NBC reporter Tom Pettit shortly after the shootingnote 
Louis Farrakhan: leader of the Nation of Islam religious group, political activist...former calypso singer?. In fact, Louis Wolcott (as he was known in his calypso days) was the first American to record "Zombie Jamboree" (aka "Jumbie Jamboree").
Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of Castile are well-known to American schoolchildren as the Spanish monarchs who bankrolled Christopher Columbus' historic voyage in 1492. An important historical contribution, to be sure, but it might overshadow the fact that they were also the masterminds of the Spanish Inquisition, and they were responsible for finally concluding the Spanish Reconquista, which united the whole of the Iberian Peninsula (with the exception of Portugal) under a single Catholic throne for the first time in its history. In context, lending some ships to a Genoese merchant sailor was one of their more minor contributions to Spanish history. Last but not least, some historians believe that Isabella is the figure that inspired making the Queen in chess into the powerful piece it is today (and renaming it to "Queen" from "Counsellor" or "Prime Minister" or "Vizier") as a recognition of her immense political influence.
Árpád Göncz, the first president of post-Communist Hungary, was previously a writer who translated many books into Hungarian, including The Lord of the Rings.
Ben Hecht, best remembered as co-author of the plays The Front Page and Twentieth Century, wrote the story outline that became Queen of Outer Space of Mystery Science Theater 3000 infamy.
Hugh Hefner was a fairly prolific movie producer, in addition to being the founder and CEO of the Playboy adult entertainment empire. Predictably, the majority of the producer credits on his resume were pornographic films released under the Playboy label, but he also produced Roman Polański's Macbeth and Peter Bogdanovich's Saint Jack (which Bogdanovich considers to be one of his best movies), and he more recently produced several documentaries about the history of Hollywood.
Theodor Heuss, who went on to become the the first president of the Bonn Republic, did something completely different when the Nazis forced him out of politics: He was a voice actor in a Nivea commercial produced by his wife.
The late Emperor Hirohito led Japan through World War II and decades beyond that until his death in 1989. He was also an accomplished amateur marine biologist and had a laboratory within his palace for this purpose. While he lacked an official degree, he had several scientific papers published and was the first to provide a scientific description and classification of several species of hydrozoa (microscopic predatory water animals) found in the seas around Japan.
Saddam Hussein is believed to have written a handful of novels and plays.
Shigesato Itoi, the man responsible for the Mother/EarthBound series, is ridiculously versatile and has dabbled in pretty much everything in the past thirty years, Mother being just another dabbling. He's also known for his fishing games, doing guest-judging on Iron Chef, and for voicing the father on My Neighbor Totoro. His actual profession is writing essays and copywriting, in his signature writing style and idiosyncrasies. In Japan, that's what you think when you hear the name Shigesato Itoi, but in America, (if at all), it's EarthBound. Mother was just Itoi experimenting into a new medium after being inspired by playing Dragon Quest, and its sales in Japan are largely based on the fact that he made it, and it and its sequels' slogans were also a factor, of course. The TV commercial even specifically says that it was by him, invoking In Case You Forgot Who Wrote It without actually using it. Its sequels' sales were also boosted by the fact that they were sequels to the games before them.
Tom Kneitel was a well-known figure among radio hobbyists, mostly for being the editor of the magazines S9 (about CB radio) and Popular Communications (mainly about shortwave radio). But he was also "Phoenix" of Phoenix and Theos, a husband-and-wife team who were extremely influential figures in the establishment of Wicca in America (Theos was Judy Kneitel). He strictly used his craft name for his Wiccan activities, so his magazine readers didn't really know that he was prominent elsewhere.
Herb Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat, is not only a respected long-serving (now retired) United States Senator and, before that, president of the retail chain Kohl’s, but from 1985 to 2014 also owned an NBA team: the Milwaukee Bucks.
TV pitchman and memetic Large Ham Billy Mays was a walk-on linebacker for the West Virginia Mountaineers football team while attending West Virginia University.
Phil Mendez, the creator of Foofur and Kissyfur, was partially responible for the character designs for Star Street: The Adventures of the Star Kids.
Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de La Fayette, was not just a French fighter of American independence: he actually had a long career as a far-left politician.
In addition to being a lawyer and politician, Abraham Lincoln was also a published poet, having been an avid reader and writer of poetry since he was a teenager. His canto "My Childhood's Home I See Again" is still printed somewhat frequently in anthologies of great American poetry. He was also a wrestler when he was younger — he even invented the chokeslam — and is the only American President to have registered a patent, for a device to help boats navigate shallow water.
James Lipton of Inside the Actor's Studio wrote An Exaltation of Larks, a book of collective terms (common, historical and invented by himself). He was also a pimp for a brief period in 1950s Paris. Rumors that he wrote the opening theme for ThunderCats (1985) remain unconfirmed.♫ 
Pioneering goresploitation film director Herschell Gordon Lewis leads a double-life as an advertising copywriter and has written dozens of books about direct-market advertising (don't you dare call it "junk mail" in his presence).
Former United States Senate Majority Leader and special envoy for Middle East Peace George Mitchell, a Maine Democrat. Between holding those jobs, he was the Chairman of Disney's board of directors, Chancellor of Queen's University in Belfast Northern Ireland, led the baseball steroid investigation, was president of the international law firm DLA Piper, helped negotiate peace in Ireland, and was a board member of several companies including the Boston Red Sox, and held several diplomatic posts.
Samuel Morse is famous for developing Morse Code and advocating for widespread adoption of the electric telegraph, but before all that, he was also an accomplished painter, with his masterpiece being Gallery of the Louvre, a six foot by nine foot painting of the titular gallery, including detailed renditions of 38 different paintings on display at the Louvre in the 1830s, as well as giving an indication of how the museum's patrons spent their time (several other people are depicted similarly making copies of the works on display). His intent was to share the work of the great European master artists with the culturally isolated American people.
Audie Murphy is probably best known as a highly decorated WWII veteran who earned most of his medals by doing crazy things in combat. But he also cowrote (with the help of an uncredited journalist friend) a best-selling war memoir, To Hell And Back, which he parlayed into an acting career that spanned 44 movies in 20 years, mostly lead roles in b-westerns. During the Korean War, he served stateside as a training instructor in the Texas National Guard. He also became a breeder of racing Quarter Horses, and contributed significantly to the development of the breed. He also occasionally rode as a jockey and won two novelty races. He sought catharsis for his war experiences by writing poetry, and from there he branched out into writing lyrics for Country Music songs. In addition, he occasionally worked as an undercover agent for the police, investigating drug dealers and possibly the mafia. And this was a guy who didn't live to see retirement age! He was also an advocate for soldiers and veterans who suffer from PTSD.
Isaac Newton is famous as the discoverer of gravity, the laws of motion, and calculus, but throughout his life he mostly practiced alchemy and had all manner of strange apocalyptic Christian ideas. He was also the Master of the Royal Mint, and successfully prosecuted counterfeiters in the most badass ways imaginable (taking it upon himself to go undercover in seedy taverns, meet with suspected counterfeiters, and then eventually catch them red-handed...after which he would personally conduct the prosecution).
Alfred Nobel (yes, that Nobel) invented dynamite and owned huge weapons factories. He created the Nobel Prizes after a scathing obituary was written about him being a "merchant of death" (after a mix-up where his brother died and that paper thought it was Alfred). He willed the bulk of his estate to awarding the prizes so he wouldn't be remembered that way.
Keith Olbermann, the famous American liberal talk show pundit, is also one of the country's foremost experts on the subject of baseball cards. He's written columns for various sports websites about his love of baseball and is a member of the Society of American Baseball Research (SABR, whence we get the term "sabermetrics" for nouveau sports statistics). He was one of the anchors for ESPN's SportsCenter from 1992 to 1997 (a stint on which Aaron Sorkin based Sports Night—Dan Rydell is based on Olbermann) and returned to the network to host his own show from 2012-2015. He also voices over-the-top whale newscaster Tom Grumbo-Jumbo in Bojack Horseman.
Pablo Picasso was most famous for his cubist work, but he was also a major player amongst futurists, expressionists, surrealists, neoclassicists, artists of New Objectivity, dadaists and Art Brut. Many people don't realize that most members of these movements hated all the other movements, so Picasso's involvement with them all (and the fact that he was idolized by them all) is astounding. He was also a successful impressionist, and one of the earliest known comic artists.
Based on a certain famous religious text, you may remember a certain otherwise obscure Roman prefect by the name of Pontius Pilate who presided over a famous trial involving one Yeshua Hanosri, a.k.a. (in the Greek) Jesus of Nazareth. What you may not remember is that he's also the governor who built the Tiberieum in Caesarea, and an aqueduct (yes, the same one mentioned in Monty Python's Life of Brian) to help keep Jerusalem adequately supplied with water.
Vladimir Putin is the current President of Russia; earlier in life, he was a Colonel in the KGB, and he has also co-authored a book on the history of judo.
Mark Rosewater, head of design for Magic: The Gathering, was a staff writer on Roseanne.
Like his Today predecessor (see below), Al Roker also has two murder mystery books under his belt (among other things).
A number of people associated with Roundhouse qualify.
John Crane, known as "Dad" on the show, went on to write for MADtv.
Ivan Dudynsky choreographed ten episodes of the show, and was also assistant choreographer for Encino Man, Michael Jackson's HBO concert special, the 1996 Academy Awards, and *NSYNC's first European tour. During the Turn of the Millennium he moved a bit further behind the scenes, including editing for at least one CMT awards show, the 2002 film Threnody, and a few episodes of MTV Jammed. Dudynsky has also directed for TV, including The Playbook, Celebrity Name Game and Hollywood Game Night.
Micki Duran went on to be The Pete Best for the band Wild Orchid (which, in another bout of "he also did", also spawned The Black Eyed Peas' resident Ms. Fanservice, Fergie), cowriting their song "At Night I Pray", and was also in the group U4Ea.
Music producer Benny Hester is best known for being one of the earliest Christian Rock musicians, and for songs like "Nobody Knows Me Like You" and "When God Ran". At least three of his songs, "The Bridge", "Before You Know It" and "Restless Nights" were featured on the show (though the latter was heavily rewritten and retitled "Back Where We Belong").
Crystal Lewis was a cast member for the first season, before leaving the show to foster her budding music career... and went on to become one of the biggest Christian music stars of The '90s and early 2000's. She and her husband Brian Ray founded the Metro One record label (the same year Roundhouse debuted), which represents a wide range of Christian music such as hip-hop and alternative. In addition, Lewis wrote the book Gold: A Devotional, was one of the featured vocalists on Kirk Franklin's Grammy-nominated song "Lean On Me", performed rockabilly music with the Screamin' Rays, played Mary in the Nativity musical Child of Promise, voiced Star on the animated series Musicland Band, and played a gatekeeper in The Wilds, a film that also featured her son Solomon (and an Award-Bait Song from her daughter Izzi). She's also recorded some of her hits in Spanish, even winning the inaugural Dove Award for Best Spanish Album.
Natalie Nucci used to perform in a "Double Date" attraction at Universal Studios Hollywood, and appeared in John Chu's early film When the Kids Are Away.
Julene Renee had a business that sold her self-designed handbags, with money going towards kids in foster care.
Prior to becoming prominent in Armenian politics (including stints as Prime Minister and the Armenian Ambassador to the United Kingdom, before becoming President in 2018), Armen Sarkissian was one of the designers for the Tetris offshoot Wordtris.
Albert Schweitzer is remembered by most people as a physician and humanitarian, but he was also a musician (organist), musicologist (who wrote studies of the works of J.S. Bach), theologian, Lutheran minister, and philosopher. He was already a famous theologian and a clergyman when he decided to study medicine and go to Africa. His theological works, while still very important, are known mostly only to specialists today.
Former Today weatherman Willard Scott started off as a network page for WRC, the NBC affiliate in Washington, D.C., and then moved on to host local kids TV shows like Barn Party and Bozo the Clown in The '50snote . Between both mentioned shows he also hosted Afternoon, a local news and variety show also cohosted by another "he also did" alumnus, Mac McGarry (the former host of the Long Runner quiz show It's Academic). After the DC-based Bozo met its end in 1963, he modified the Bozo design and came up with the character now known as Ronald McDonald. In addition, Willard also wrote two murder mystery novels (in addition to 3 nonfictions, 2 quote-based books and a cookbook), hosted a Talent Show on ABC Family and several "Christmas Across America" specials for HGTV, as well as a TV show called Willard Scott's Home and Garden Almanac on the latter channel, was one half of "The Joy Boys" radio team for 20 years, and played Mr. Poole, a bit character on The Hogan Family. He had also taken over as the announcer for the Smucker's commercials after the Author Existence Failure of Mason Adams. A sampling of Willard's "he also did" gigs up to around 2000 can be found here.
Alex "Smiffy" Smith is probably best known as the Token Evil Teammate of Hat Films, a group with a (played up) laddish sense of humour and black comedy. So imagine the surprise of the fans when they found out he'd once been in a bluegrass band and actually had a good singing voice. He kept the project up for a year or so after joining the group, and also recorded his own material.
Jean de Dieu Soult, best known as one of Napoleon's Marshals, also happens to be France's longest-serving Prime Minister. He reformed the army and had fortifications built around Paris, among other things. Actually, the same could be said about many other Marshals, as biographies tend to focus on the Napoleonic era. Laurent Gouvion Saint-Cyr was originally a painter and art teacher, but he also served as Minister of War in 1818 and some of his reforms endured for more than half a century. Alexandre Berthier fought in the War of American Independence and studied the Prussian army for some years. Auguste Marmont failed as an industrialist, but his book De l'esprit des institutions militaires was considered a reference among French officers. And so on...
Albert Speer, the architect responsible for Nazi monumental architecture, was also the creator of the Volkswagen (ironically known as a hippie-culture icon).
Dr. Benjamin Spock, the famous child care specialist, also won an Olympic gold medal in rowing back in 1924. Furthermore, he was a prominent member of the movement opposing the Vietnam War.
Before becoming a barrister and entering politics, Margaret Thatcher was a research chemist who helped develop emulsifiers for soft-serve ice cream.
French historian Jean Tulard specializes in both the Napoleonic era and the history of cinema. Incidentally, he's the co-author of a book about movie adaptations of the Napoleonic saga.
Henry Agard Wallace was FDR's Agriculture Secretary, Vice President and Commerce Secretary, in that order. While he is remembered more for his political work, he was among the first to breed hybrid corn (and other things from strawberries to chickens), and wrote a number of works on agriculture. In addition, he edited both The New Republic (after he left government) and Wallaces' Farmer (before he went into government).
Major League Baseball umpire Joe West is a country/western musician. He has released two albums and his music was even played at Dodger Stadium when working a game.
Chaim Weizmann was a Zionist leader and the first President of Israel. He was also a notable chemist, "who developed the ABE-process which produces acetone through bacterial fermentation" (Wikipedia).
Most of the people associated with Wheel of Fortune qualify.
Original host Chuck Woolery, who quit in 1981, later went on to host of such popular shows as Love Connection, Scrabble, and Lingo. He was originally one-half of the psychedelic rock duo The Avant-Garde, and a solo country music artist while he hosted Wheel. Woolery has also hosted several infomercials, and a conservative video series on YouTube.
Current host Pat Sajak (1981-present) has written essays and blog entries for several conservative publications, and owns two AM radio stations in Maryland.
Also from Wheel, co-host Vanna White (1982-present) has written several books on crocheting and sells her own line of yarn when she's not lighting up letters. She also played the lead role in the 1980's Made-for-TV Movie Goddess of Love - the less said about it the better.
Furry artist Doug Winger was formerly an engineer for Republic Aviation Corporation and later Fairchild Aircraft, being Acting System Engineer for the Fairchild Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II's AN/AAS-35(V) Pave Penny laser spot tracker and working in the support team for the Space Shuttle orbiter's tail section stabilizer.
Byron White could just as easily be placed in the "Athletes" folder as here. To college football junkies, especially Colorado Buffaloes fans, he was a star running back in the '30s at Colorado (also playing baseball and basketball) who eventually made the College Football Hall of Fame. He could have been an NFL star, and did play in the league for a few years. However, younger generations (including many Colorado fans) remember him better for his legal career that culminated in more than 30 years on the US Supreme Court.
Gene Wood, a popular game show announcer in the 60s through 90s, was also a comedian, and wrote cartoon shorts for Captain Kangaroo.
History has seen a lot of Warrior Poets, along with Warrior Philosophers and Warrior Artists. Socrates fought against the invading Persians, Xenophon was a Greek mercenary, Thucydides experienced the Peloponnesian Wars first-hand, and Horace fought in the Roman Civil Wars. There's a sharp decrease in this during the Dark Ages (when the ruling caste were often barbarian invaders) and the early Middle Ages (when the feudal lords were sometimes literate and sometimes not and usually had enough on their plates politically to keep them busy). But things boomed again during the last years of the High Middle Ages, where knights were supposed to be poets as well, while still being efficient and ruthless iron-clad warriors. This was the heyday of the Warrior Poet, some examples including Chrétien de Troyes, Sir Thomas Mallory, and very notably Dante Alighieri (who was exiled from Florence and became a rogue knight who fought for many different lords), while Leonardo da Vinci was contracted as a military engineer in Venice, Miguel de Cervantes was a young officer and war hero at Lepanto, and so it goes.
Both World Wars pretty much ensured that a large number of famous people from two generations also served in the military or related fields in addition to the main source of their fame. Among these can be cited of note (takes breath) Christopher Lee (Commando in WWII), Kurt Vonnegut (WWII private and Dresden flattening survivor), William Butler Yeats (volunteer in WWI), Ernest Hemingway (volunteered as paramedic in WWI and spy in WWII), longtime cartoon and anime voice director Wally Burr (WWII tank commander), bogus director and crossdresser extraordinaire Ed Wood (war hero in Guadalcanal... in panties), Ian Fleming (WWII), Jon Pertwee (known to have been in the Royal Navy, but only recently revealed to have been an intelligence agent) painters Otto Dix, Egon Schiele, Oskar Kokoschka and lots of other Germans/Austrian young poor artists (drafted in WWI), Russian writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn (tank commander in the Great Patriotic War, decorated twice), B-25 bomber gunner Charlton Heston (WWII), machine gun squadron staff sergeant Charles Schulz, J. D. Salinger (took part in the D-Day landings) a whole lot of French enlisted in La Résistance (mime Marcel Marceau; philosopher Simone Weil; writers Marguerite Duras, Albert Camus, Samuel Beckett, Paul Eluard, Louis Aragon, André Malraux, Tristan Tzara, etc.). Technically, Queen Elizabeth II also served in WWII, though not in a fighting capacity - she volunteered for the British women's auxiliary force, thus making her the only current head of state who's a veteran of that war. (A fact which caused some controversy when she wasn't invited to the D-Day commemoration in 2010.)
Adolf Hitler, known as a dictator responsible for the deaths of millions, started as an artist. Some of his paintings are actually pretty good. In fact, if he had swallowed his pride and gone into commercial art (advertising and postcards) we may be talking of a massive case of What Might Have Been....
Joseph Stalin (Jugashvili) was a budding Georgian poet in his youth. And before then he trained to be a priest.
As you might have gathered from reading this list, this is true of many politicians, who transitioned into that occupation after gaining some degree of recognition elsewhere. Examples include military service, acting, business, and of course, many many lawyers.
And in the course of politics, some politicians have a surprising history of policies they supported in the past. Often ripe fodder for discussion during election campaigns.
Theodore Roosevelt. Before become President, his resume included (but was not limited to) historian, author, state legislator, rancher, deputy sheriff, police commissioner, soldier, and governor. After the Presidency he added big game hunter, conservationist, and Amazonian explorer to the list.
William Howard Taft was the only President who was also a Supreme Court Justice. In fact, his lifelong dream wasn't to become President, but to become Chief Justice of the United States (which he accomplished).
Probably half of the United States Presidents fought in some war. Even if one limited it to the ones who held the rank of General, it would take some time to list them all. The most famous are, of course, George Washington, Andrew Jackson and Ulysses S. Grant, whose pictures appear on the currency. But Zachary Taylor, Dwight D. Eisenhower and William Henry Harrison (the one who died of pneumonia) also had very successful military careers before going into politics, and Warner Bros. even made an admittedly So Okay, It's Average movie about John F. Kennedy's WWII exploits while Kennedy was in office. And among presidential spouses, First Lady Mamie Eisenhower did some uncredited camerawork on Gypsy while her husband Dwight was still in office.
Many companies started in one business but shifted into new markets with the changing times.
A large number of automotive companies started doing something else.
Peugeot started out making a number of mechanical devices, starting with grinders for salt, pepper, and coffee. They moved into transportation with bicycles in 1882, and then made their first (steam-powered) car in 1889. The next year, they started making cars with petrol-powered internal combustion engines, and the rest (as they say) is history. Fun fact: Though Peugeot sold off its bicycle arm, it still makes salt and pepper grinders—some of the best in the world, in fact.
Škoda was originally a bicycle company.
Abercrombie & Fitch is a well-known purveyor of casual clothing for hip young folks. Until the 1980s, A&F was a sporting goods store, and to this day you can still find Abercrombie and Fitch hunting rifles and shotguns on the used market and in collections.
After the aviation industry bubble popped after World War I note , Boeing started selling wood furniture. After a similar (but less drastic) market downturn after the Vietnam War, they went into business selling mass transit systems to cities. And of course, they also used to be in the airline business before it became illegal for aircraft manufacturers to operate airlines in the US. Boeing's aviation operation was split off and was the founding of present day United Airlines. A considerable portion of United's fleet is made of Boeing aircraft.
The Canadian industrial behemoth Bombardier is a long and confusing one. The company was originally founded to make snowmobiles for the Quebec market—and by snowmobiles, we mean the old kind that amount to cars and even buses equipped with skis and tracks for operation on snow. This led in two directions. In one direction, this led toward expansion into other types of transportation, including locomotives, rail cars, and (after acquiring Canadair) its most prominent division, commercial aircraft (if you've flown within the Eastern U.S. in the last 20 years, you probably flew on a Bombardier aircraft at least once). In the other direction, Bombardier developed the snowmobiles into the smaller, more compact motorcycle-like devices more common today when it introduced the Ski-Doo in 1952. This led to various expansions into other outdoor-recreation products with motors like jet-skis. As a result, Bombardier actually split in two, with the original company keeping the rail-equipment-and-airplanes business and a new company, Bombardier Recreational Products, taking on the snowmobiles and such.
Coleco Industries, the toy company which originated both the Cabbage Patch Kids dolls and the ColecoVision, one of the earliest home video game consoles, started out as a company that made shoe leather (the name is actually short for Connecticut Leather Company).
Eurovision does more than just the Eurovision Song Contest. Besides other, more highbrow competitions (such as Eurovision Young Dancers and Let the Peoples Sing, a choir contest), it also rebroadcasts events such as the BBC Proms across Europe, and enables pooling of news resources among European Broadcasting Union members. They also co-produced The Animals of Farthing Wood.
When most people talk about "a JCB", they mean the earth movers that are ubiquitous on British construction sites. They may not even be aware that this is just one of a huge range of construction machines and building tools that JCB produce.
Studio Ghibli, aside from their films known for their breath-taking animation, have also done some low-key jobs such as Finish Animation on Sailor Moon, In-Between Animation on Crayon Shin-chan, and Backgrounds for Azumanga Daioh.
In-Universe Examples:
The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension: Buckaroo Banzai is a world-famous scientist, neurosurgeon, presidential advisor, rock and roll musician, and explorer of the unknown.
In Robert A. Heinlein's Double Star the main character is surprised to learn that the big bluff pilot, Dak Broadbent, is also a Grand Assemblyman, holds a Ph.D. in physics, had been reserve champion with the pistol in the Imperial Matches nine years earlier, and had published three volumes of verse under the nom de plume of "Acey Wheelwright."
In Jon Sable, Freelance mercenary Jon Sable also writes children's books. Of course, he goes to great length to keep that a secret, since who would hire a mercenary who writes children's books? He also has been an Olympic Athlete.
Zal of Quantum Gravity primarily does Mode X (think rock/alternative) stuff, but when he was starting out, he did a lot of different stuff. Naming it all is a task better put to a page detailing music genres.
Jeremy Renner guest starred in an episode of House as patient of the week Jimmy Quid, a self-destructive experimental noise musician whom it turned out volunteered at a children's hospital and recorded folk music in his early 20s under his real name Jimmy Moskowitz.
A Running Gag in The Fall Guy is that Howie Munson has had a gajillion different jobs before he tried his hand as a stuntman. His experience from his previous jobs serves him well as a Bounty Hunter along with his cousin Colt Seavers

Quotes / He Also Did
Kevin Altieri and Brad Rader worked on this? Talk about paying your dues.... ( I'm still bitter this replaced Jem back in the day. ;) )
—oneeyesmiley55 on Maxie's World
The Christmas break for me is a time for relaxing, using troughs and conveyor belts as dining utensils and getting completely bombed...I'm not in the right mood for confusing fast-paced spectacle in a clashing rainbow of vibrant bubblegum colours that make me throw up a veritable landslide of Ferrero Rocher. I wanna play something calm, slow-paced and contemplative. So actually I spent most of a fortnight playing a game by the developers of Serious Sam. No really, Croteam went and made a philosophical puzzle game, and it's called The Talos Principle, which is the kind of title that if you saw it on the board outside a cinema, your gaze would immediately ricochet off onto Transformers 9: Even Larger Stuff Breaking...Ask Serious Sam to redirect laser beams, he'd probably just redirect his bollocks into your eye sockets.
—Zero Punctuation
On the infrequent occasions when I have been called upon in a formal place to play the bongo drums, the introducer never seems to find it necessary to mention that I also do theoretical physics.
—Richard Feynman

Useful Notes
"I believe our future depends powerfully on how well we understand this Cosmos, in which we float like a mote of dust in the morning sky."
— Carl Sagan
Useful notes on a variety of subjects, the purpose of which is threefold:
To debunk common media stereotypes.
To help you understand some media better.
To educate, inform, and sometimes entertain.
The Law of Wiki Expansion states that every specialized wiki will accumulate useful notes like these as it grows. Note, however, that this is not supposed to be an index of everything that exists in the real world — that is the purview of The Other Wiki. We are a site about media and storytelling. As a rule of thumb, items to be added should either be commonly featured in media, or related to its creation and distribution in some way.
Useful Notes articles are not tropes and are not to be included in a work's trope list. See, however, Historical Domain Character. Similarly, tropes are not to be used to describe the subject of a Useful Notes article directly. You may, however, list tropes that are commonly found in media portraying the subject.

Useful Notes / All Hallows' Eve
All Hallows' Eve. All Saints' Eve. Samhain. October 31. Whatever you call it, and whether you like it or not, Hallowe'en is a holiday that has almost ingrained itself into American life and, in turn, the global culture.
Origins and history
The roots of what we now know as Halloween are descended from the Celtic festival of Samhain (pronounced "sah-win"), which means "summers end." The ancient Celts believed that the "veil" between the worlds of the living and the dead was thin from the night of October 31st through to the night of November 1st; anybody who knows anything about Halloween knows where this is going. It was the Celtic new year, a time when spiritual power heightened, marking the last harvest, the end of foraging for livestock, and the beginning of winter. Samhain was then adapted into the night before the Catholic celebration of All Saints' Day (aka All Hallows' Day or Hallowmas), becoming "All Hallows' Evening", which was then contracted into "Hallowe'en". Originally, in the seventh century, All Saints' Day was celebrated on May 13th, right after Easter. A few centuries later, it was shifted to November, to incorporate Celtic Samhain traditions in an effort to convert pagans. Some Orthodox churches continue to celebrate it in April, as did the Irish for a time. The revival of Celtic culture in the late 19th and early 20th centuries only deepened interest in Samhain, contributing to its transformation into the modern holiday of Halloween.
Halloween was imported to the US and Canada in the 19th century, a time that saw substantial Irish and Scottish migration to the New World. Back in this time, Halloween in North America was more of a celebration of Irish and Scottish heritage than anything else, much like Columbus Day is for Italian Americans. It was celebrated with large feasts, apple bobbing, and other divination games, as well as pranks and mischief. By the turn of the century, the "pranks and mischief" had become the defining feature of Halloween, turning it into a night of vandalism. As a result, the Boy Scouts and neighborhood groups started working to turn Halloween back into a safe celebration, organizing trick-or-treating events based around the old practice of "guising" to redirect the focus of the festivities away from violence. With Halloween now becoming a popular celebration outside of Welsh, Irish and Scottish neighborhoods, retailers seized upon a brilliant opportunity to have a new holiday to commercialize. While there was some commercialization going on before (mass-produced costumes were appearing in the 1930s), it really took off after World War II, and it hasn't stopped since.
Today, Halloween is considered a major holiday in the U.S., Canada, Mexico (where it retains more of a Catholic bent, as it falls right before the Día de los Muertos celebrations), and the British Isles (where it is more strongly influenced by the older traditions, particularly in Ireland, Scotland, Northern England and Wales). It has also caught on in mainland Europe -especially in those regions with strong Celtic influence as northernmost Spain, where it is often also closer to the older traditions-, India, the Philippines, and Japan through exposure to American media. It's that part about American media that often creates the most criticism of Halloween outside North America and the British Isles. France, for instance, has long been resistant to celebrating the holiday, seeing it as a form of American cultural imperialism, and celebrations are largely limited to the expat communities. The Australians are more accepting, especially in recent years (it helps that many Australians claim Irish or Scottish ancestry), but it is still fairly controversial for the same reasons that it is in France; a typical sight in newspapers around October is articles railing against the holiday and the "creeping Americanism" it represents (especially given that, in Australia, October marks the beginning of spring). Even in the UK, there are those who bemoan the degree to which Halloween has displaced the more traditional Guy Fawkes Night or Bonfire Night observances of a few days later.
Traditions
Costumes: One of the standout features of the holiday. The Halloween costume has traditionally been some form of monster — popular choices include ghosts (particularly of the bedsheet variety), skeletons, witches, demons, vampires, zombies, and masked slashers. Big rubber masks are often a component, as is fake blood. Other popular (and less scary or supernatural) choices include police officers, firefighters, pirates, soldiers, doctors, nurses, animals, princesses, TV and movie characters, Presidential candidates in election yearsnote , and costumes that parody the year's events, often in a macabre and deliberately provocative fashion (such as a celebrity who died recently, or a victim of a recent disaster). Historically, costumes based on ethnic groups and stereotypes (particularly Native Americans) were popular, and many stores still carry them, but these days, going out in such a costume is as likely to get you an earful as it is to get you a compliment.
A recent trend has been for women's Halloween costumes to crank up the fanservice with plenty of cleavage, leg, midriff, and leather. In fact, as noted on the page for Hotter and Sexier, the "slutty Halloween costume" is almost a trope in and of itself, with entire companies specializing in making sexy costumes. Halloween has been described (most famously by Cady Heron) as the one day when women are allowed to pretty much dress like strippers without any repercussions, no matter how strait-laced they are on the other 364 days of the year, while Dan Savage has called it the closest thing that straight people have to a gay pride parade, or that Americans have to Carnival or Mardi Gras. That said, it does make a good target for snark, with lists of the most laughable "sexy" Halloween costumes cropping up every October. And in case you were wondering, while it is less common, guys get in on this too; the usual male variation of the above is either the Walking Shirtless Scene, or something that calls attention to the guy's junk (like elephants, hot dogs, genie bottles, or "ball pits").
Decoration: Halloween trails only Christmas as the most popular holiday for decorating one's house, and as with Christmas said decoration nowadays can take place weeks ahead of time. The Celtic jack-o'-lantern tradition has been imported largely intact, the main difference being that pumpkins long ago replaced turnips as the carved vegetable of choice in North America (pumpkins being larger, easier to carve and more plentiful than in Europe). Most people carve the usual scary faces into their jack-o'-lanterns, although some will carve (or paint) funny faces, words, or images instead. In addition to jack-o'-lanterns, people will decorate their houses and property with things like scarecrows, witches, skeletons, black cats, spiders, tombstones, hands reaching up out of the ground, and various items (blood splatters, hand prints) in their windows. Occasionally a home's decorations will turn out to be a little too realistic, leading to the police being called to the "murder scene" and the very pleased-with-themselves homeowner getting on the news as a human interest story. (And, in the other direction, there was one time when an actual murder victim was mistaken for a decoration.)
Trick-or-treating: A practice that is mostly celebrated by children and their parents (although some will tell you that you're never too old to trick-or-treat), in which they go door-to-door asking for candy, saying "Trick or treat!" whenever the door is opened. The "trick" refers to the (mostly idle) threat of performing mischief against the homeowners or their property if no treats are given. No, most of us do not view this as extortion. A house is marked as "open" for trick-or-treaters by the presence of a lit jack-o'-lantern and porch lights. Trick-or-treating usually takes place at very specific hours of the evening (often 5-8 PM) so that kids won't stay out too late. The treats are almost always wrapped candies bought from a store, such as chocolate bars, lollipops, Twizzlers, and candy corn. Sometimes, people giving out candy, not wanting to be bothered to go to the door, choose to rely on the honor system, leaving a bowl of candy that kids are expected to only take small amounts of. Kids being kids, the bowl is usually empty, if not outright gone, halfway through the night. A similar, older tradition in Scotland and Wales is 'guising', where the children are expected to do a 'turn' (e.g. recite a poem or tell a few jokes) before they get any sweets.
Candy apples (apples coated with caramel or toffee) used to be a popular treat, but that ended due to a scare in The '80s over people putting razor blades, needles, or poison in the apples. In reality, the only proven cases of people deliberately spiking kids' candy with poison or drugs were crazy parents who were trying to kill their own children (and one of the most famous cases involved Pixi-Stix, a "safe" wrapped candy), not strangers handing out poison at the door. Hiding pins or needles in Halloween candy has been known to happen several times, but usually as a prank by one's friends — and it can just as easily be done with a wrapped Snickers bar as with an apple. There certainly wasn't any conspiracy by Satanic cultists to murder children as sacrifices to the Dark Lord, as has been claimed.note  So basically, nice job ruining our fun, assholes.
Haunted attractions: Starting in late September, amusement parks go on a massive Halloween splurge, giving all of their attractions a horror theme, dressing the employees in spooky costumes and makeup, and putting up most of the aforementioned decorations. It helps that, north of the snow line, most amusement parks close for the winter at the start of November, making Halloween their last hurrah for the year. This practice died down for a couple of years after September 11th due to the perception that it was too soon to be glamorizing death and horror, but has since kicked back in with a vengeance. Many parks are famous for their big-budget Halloween attractions, such as Universal Studios for Halloween Horror Nights and Busch Gardens for Howl-O-Scream, both of which draw in millions of visitors from across America and beyond.
For those with a smaller budget than the big amusement parks, the Haunted House (or abandoned factory, prison, mental asylum, or other spooky place) is a popular attraction, as are the haunted hayride, the corn maze, the haunted airboat ride (in the southern US), and the haunted trail in less urban areas, with people jumping out of the shadows to scare the bejesus out of the visitors. The "scariness" of attractions varies widely, depending on the target audience — some may be family attractions (the haunted hayride in particular is seen as this), while others are most definitely not recommended for children or those with weak stomachs. In recent times, due to their popularity, many major haunted attractions have grown to be highly elaborate and sophisticated, with Hollywood-quality special effects and production values.
A popular urban legend claims that there exists a haunted attraction somewhere in the country that is so scary, it offers cash rewards or full refunds to anybody who can complete it — and of course, nobody ever succeeds. To the best of our knowledge, such a place does not exist, though as described above, people have tried their damnedest to come close. Direct contact with the guests can easily cause an accident that can lead to a lawsuit, which is why, usually, the performers stop just short of doing this. In recent years, there has been a wave of "extreme" houses where guests are physically restrained and even abused, but such houses require guests to sign waivers clearing them of any liability — and they don't give refunds. Some of the most famous/notorious examples include Blackout in New York and McKamey Manor in San Diego, which are designed to simulate the experience of being in a Torture Porn film. For some time now, Universal Orlando has been trying to create such a house for Halloween Horror Nights, but for the longest time, their efforts were derailed due to concern over injuries and lawsuits; the closest they got was the "Severe Fear" house in 2003 that was scrapped at the very last minute. They finally pulled it off in 2016 with "The Repository", a combination of an extreme haunted house, an escape room, and Virtual Reality.
Mischief Night/Devil's Night/Gate Night/Goosey Night/Cabbage Night/Mat Night/October 30: Whatever you want to call it, the night before Halloween is a night when many teenagers choose to go out and raise a little hell, keeping alive the tradition of Halloween as a night of pranks and mischief after the day itself became more sanitized. Pranks usually involve petty vandalism, such as throwing toilet paper into trees, throwing eggs (preferably rotten) at houses and cars, rubbing soap or wax on windows, and smashing jack-o'-lanterns.
However, in some places (most infamously Detroit and the north of England), the night is associated with far worse cases of vandalism, including arson, putting fireworks in mailboxes, breaking windows, and setting fires in the street. As a result, the police tend to step up their patrols on October 30 to deter vandals. In addition, some parts of the UK put age restrictions on buying items like eggs, flour, and toilet paper around Halloween, in order to prevent under-16s from buying such items for vandalism.
Movies and television: While new horror flicks usually come into theaters at a steady stream year-round (about once a month), October is when the studios decide to stack their release schedule with these films, releasing a new one at least once a week. For instance, during the Turn of the Millennium the Saw franchise marketed itself as a modern Halloween tradition, with at least one entry bearing the tagline "if it's Halloween, it must be Saw", and new installments coming out every October like clockwork... at least, until Paranormal Activity blew it out of the water and took its place. Stores that sell or rent out movies will dramatically expand their horror sections, and customers are more than happy to oblige. With the rise of home video, this has also been the reason why August has become such a popular time to release horror movies — it provides ample time to get the DVD into stores in time for October without running into Summer Blockbuster season.
TV channels, particularly cable channels, run marathons of horror films for weeks, from the old classics (Dracula, Frankenstein, The Wolf Man) to modern ones (Friday the 13th, A Nightmare on Elm Street, The Exorcist, Dawn of the Dead, Scream, and of course, Halloween), as well as shows like The Addams Family and The Twilight Zone. For kids and those not in the mood to be scared, It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown is usually on the air somewhere, as are other Halloween specials both classic and modern. Most long-running TV shows do at least one Halloween Episode during their run; among the most famous Halloween episodes are The Simpsons' annual "Treehouse of Horror" anthology episodes.
Parties: As noted under American Holidays, Americans will never resist the temptation to go out and party. After trick-or-treating ends, kids and their parents usually go to their friends' houses to bob for apples, search for candy in the backyard, tell spooky stories, and compare their respective hauls for the night. Pumpkin pie may be served. Teenagers and young adults, meanwhile, often have parties of their own. Horror movies (or The Nightmare Before Christmas) are played on the TV, the guys go to check out how sexy/slutty the women's costumes are, and songs like "Thriller", "Somebody's Watching Me", the Monster Mash, and the Ghostbusters theme come on at least once during the night. These events may run the chance of turning into the Wild Teen Party, although oftentimes, they are held at bars and similar establishments that can deal with rowdiness better than the parents of a teenager. In places with a lot of countryside, Halloween parties traditionally involve bonfires and activities like snipe hunts.
Other Traditions: In Ireland, barmbrack (a sort of light fruit cake) is made with a ring and other minor charms baked into it — the idea being that the person who finds the ring in their slice will also find their true love within a year (commercially produced brack include a toy ring.) In some Wiccan and neo-pagan religious groups, the holiday actually starts during the Autumn Equinox (September 21st or 22nd) and lasts until November 2nd or 3rd depending on the year, although it's a fairly lite practice as fewer then 3 or 4 known groups do openly admit this.
Religious views
Remember what we said up at the top of the page about how Halloween is (allegedly) descended from the Celtic pagan festival of Samhain? Well, there are some people and places that don't take too kindly to this little tidbit.
For the most part, Catholics and mainline Protestants are tolerant of the holiday, seeing any ties to paganism as having long since been buried by centuries of Christian and secular tradition — after all, does anybody, apart from Jehovah's Witnesses and a few Fundamentalist churches, complain about the connections between modern Christmas celebrations and the pagan solstice holiday of Yule? To them, it is a harmless, secular holiday built around imaginary monsters and handing out candy. Catholic schools often hold Halloween celebrations, and a Vatican exorcist has said that the day is harmless. The Catholic and Anglican Churches may emphasize All Saints' Day, the celebration that comes after Halloween, while Protestants may celebrate Reformation Day — the day when in 1517, Martin Luther started The Protestant Reformation — which falls on the same day. However, these celebrations are usually held simultaneously with Halloween, rather than in opposition to it. The laissez-faire attitude that Catholics hold to the holiday makes sense — the Catholic Church was instrumental in Christianizing the holiday, and it was Irish Catholics who brought Halloween to America in the first place.
Some conservative Christians, however, feel that Halloween trivializes (or outright celebrates) the occult and is therefore incompatible with the Christian faith. To bolster this stance they point to the holiday's Celtic pagan connections, which they feel to be Satanic. There have been many religious challenges to and protests against the celebration of Halloween over the years, particularly in the "Bible Belt" region of the South and the rural Midwest. A recent tradition among conservative Christians has been to hold "Halloween alternative parties" in which people dress up as Biblical characters, and "Hell houses" as The Moral Substitute to regular Halloween attractions. At Hell houses, the attendees are shown scenes meant to portray the decadence of secular culture, finally ending in a room that represents either heaven, which is the reward for not behaving in the manner just witnessed, or hell, occupied by Satan, who claims that all of the characters they had seen (who usually reappear here) are now firmly in his grasp. Afterwards, in order to get out, the attendees must agree to be "saved" (become born-again Christians) or traverse the length of the building. In some cases, the Hell house is marketed as a normal haunted house, thus making it a Bait-and-Switch in which unwitting attendees don't realize that they're going to a fire-and-brimstone sermon until they're already through the door.
The same dichotomy exists within Judaism and Islam. The Orthodox Jewish and conservative Muslim views on the holiday are similar to the conservative Christian one — it has deep pagan roots, and is therefore incompatible with observance of Judaism or Islam. It is for this reason that celebrations of Halloween have failed to gain traction in the conservative Middle East—including Israel.note  On the other hand, Reform Jews and the more secular and liberal Muslimsnote  in the US and Canada tend to follow the more "who cares" view of their liberal Christian counterparts, holding it to be harmless fun that lost any semblance of being any religion's holiday once the marketers got a hold of it. Meanwhile, the Conservative Jews (as usual) stand half-here, half-there on the subject.
And finally, with so much controversy over its pagan history, what do actual pagans think about it? Celtic pagans (of both the neo-pagan and reconstructionist variety) consider the season to be a holy time of year, and make offerings to the gods and the ancestors. A fair number of Wiccans, however, feel that the modern, Western incarnation of the holiday is offensive — they see it as promoting old stereotypes and caricatures of "wicked witches" that serve to make people suspicious and fearful of real-life pagans and witches. (The Boston Legal episode "Witches of Mass Destruction" featured conservative Christians and hardline Wiccans teaming up against Halloween, which is sad.)

Useful Notes / Furry Fandom
"Given the choice between an animal with fur and one without fur, most people would think the animal covered in fur would be cuter. And if we applied that logic to people, then everyone would be a furry."
— TheOdd1sOut
Basically, a furry is a fan of anthropomorphic animal characters (or "anthros", as they commonly abbreviate it to). The majority of the fandom consists of people who enjoy fiction and art revolving around anthropomorphic animal characters, ranging from independently written stories and comic books to established, mainstream franchises, with Sonic the Hedgehog, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Pokémon, The Lion King, Kung Fu Panda, Animal Crossing, Star Fox and Zootopia being some of the most revered mainstream works.
The furry fandom got its start in the early 1980s, with Albedo: Erma Felna EDF and its related works by Steve Gallacci generally considered the first "furry" comic book. The immediate success of the independently produced Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Mirage) in 1984, as opposed to corporate works by Disney et al, enticed publishers and creators into making more works starring or exclusively featuring anthro characters; this opened the doors for actual furry creators to get their works circulated. As a result, the mid-1980s to early 2000s were the glory years for printed Mature Animal Story comics with independent publishing houses like Thoughts & Images, Fantagraphics Books, Mu Press, Radio Comix and Shanda Fantasy Arts offering whole lines of series for furry fandom. Indeed, Radio Comix's Genus holds the record for the longest running adult erotic comic in North America. Unfortunately, thanks to Marvel Comics' 1990s attempt to dominate distribution with its in house business of Heroes World backfiring into enabling Diamond Distributing to instead gain a practical monopoly over the North America market instead, Diamond steadily strangled the market for small independent publishers by raising its required minimum circulation numbers until most were put out of business, including most of the above publishers. Fortunately, online crowdsourcing services like Kickstarternote  and Patreonnote  have arisen to provide a new means to publish for both the field's veterans and new talents.
Written works began to excel during this time as well thanks to fanzines, as well as a growing presence of written and drawn works appearing at science fiction and fantasy conventions. By 1989, furry conventions began appearing, with some (such as Midwest FurFest and the now-discontinued ConFurence) branching off from already established sci-fi and fantasy conventions. Currently, there are over 80 established conventions and gatherings worldwide (with the United States holding seven of the ten largest in the world), countless meetsnote  and several websites dedicated exclusively to furry art, literature, and even clothing and accessories.
Most (though not all) furries create what is known as a fursona (a Portmanteau of "furry" and "persona") by which they express themselves or self-actualize, essentially an avatar. Exactly where on the Sliding Scale of Anthropomorphism these characters are vary from extremely cartoony to hyper-realistic; the majority of them tend to be on the anthropomorphic side, though non-anthro fursonas (referred to as "Ferals") are popular, too. The term "Furry" is a bit of a misnomer as characters based on birds (referred to as "Avians"), reptiles (referred to as "Scalies"), amphibians, and even non-tetrapods are also counted under the umbrella term. While originally used as characters in comics and stories, fursonas are now generally created as a means of self-expression. As a result, the furry fandom differs from comic and anime fandoms by its emphasis on pet projects of original work and on commissioned artworks of personal characters, rather than focusing exclusively on published works.
The most visible and well-known part of the furry fandom are fursuits, mascot-style costumes of original characters. Much like cosplay, fursuits are labors of love, and there are many home-grown costume businesses who sell original or commissioned full or partial costumes. A common misconception is that a fursuit is a requirement in the fandom; in reality, roughly a quarter of the fandom are 'suiters.note  Most (again, not all) simply opt to commission art of their fursonas and original characters. Furries work in several other talents within the fandom: artists, crafters, writers, puppeteers, and most recently, dancers and performance artists, have all found a space within the fandom to share anthro-oriented work.
Another small though highly visible section lies those with literal anthropomorphic animal fetishes, including an even smaller subset of erotic cosplayersnote  and other individuals who take their kinks beyond the computer screen. Though there's plenty of kink-based artwork and literature out there in many fandoms, it's this smaller subset that has gotten plenty of attention and vilification. MTV, CSI, ER and Vanity Fair, amongst others, have all had their moments covering this controversial side of the fandom. The effects of this period of mainstream coverage around the Turn of the Millennium are still leaving ripples throughout mainstream discourse of furries: while it is very common now to be outspoken as a nerd, otaku or comic book fan, it is still possible to be ostracized both personally and professionally for being "out" as a furry. The crude fallacy of "all furries are perverts because some have a sexual side" also led to a strict distrust of the media among furries until very recently.
Nevertheless, this "anti-furry" attitude has chilled thanks to both the Law Of Fan Jackassery and to recently changing social attitudes, thanks in no small part to the intermingling of fandoms in social media. For instance, it says a lot that when Midwest FurFest was flooded with chlorine gas in an act of domestic terrorism in 2014, pretty much everyone was outraged. Furthermore, there was a charming incident when a furry convention was held in 2016 at a hotel that was also sheltering Syrian refugees at that time; despite posted warnings for the groups to keep apart, the kids in the latter group were delighted to meet the fursuiters, which seemed to them like the Disney theme park characters had come to them and a good time was held by all. Even better in that same year, Walt Disney Pictures outright marketed openly to the fandom for the promotion of their animated film, Zootopia, and the effort paid off with that film becoming one of the most critically hailed and financially successful films of that year, to say nothing of the other successful furry films that same year, Kung Fu Panda 3 and (to a lesser degree) Sing.
In terms of demographics, there are members of the fandom of nearly all ages, ranging from late teens to mid-twenties, with a small demographic in their late thirties (the fandom's ball really started rolling in the early years of the internet, after all). Nearly all furries have hobbies that extend outside of the fandom: gaming, anime, sports, cars, outdoor exploration... name it and you'll probably find some furries there, too. There's also a propensity for sarcastic, self-deprecating humor as a reaction to all of the unfortunately biased media coverage of the past decade.
Also, meet Dr. Kathy Gerbasi, social psychologist who has created peer-reviewed studies of the fandom since 2006.

Sliding Scale / Furry Fandom
The Furry-O-Meter:
4 - One of "Those" Furries. Includes those who get uniquely in touch with their animal side, building their life around it or wanting to be their fursona instead of human. Their entire identity is based around their fursona, and they go to every convention. Some would say they take it a little overboard.
3 - Regular Furry. Roleplays, has a fursona, commissions art and stories, attends cons, haunts the websites, has a fursuit, and is generally passionate about the furry world. May or may not have an anthropomorphism fetish.
2 - Honorary Furry Fan. Feels comfortable around them and appreciates their works, but is not very active in the community (no fursuiting or cosplaying, congoing, etc.). Might have a fursona, but may hardly use it.
1 - The Tangentially Related Artist. Has a non-fandom rationale behind featuring anthro characters in their works (either because Furries Are Easier to Draw, or because fanservice is fanservice whether or not it's furry) but may still appreciate their attention and be friends with some members.
0 - The Neutral. Unsure of their relationship to the Fandom, or just indifferent to them.
-1 - The "Mundane". Definitely not a furry, but doesn't tend to mind them, except for those approaching type 4.
-2 - The Mildly Squicked. A little uncomfortable around furries and may ask them to keep to themselves. Still capable of civility.
-3 - True Anti-Furry. Generally has a Not In My Back Yard attitude towards furries and wants them off their forums/chatrooms/other regular haunts so they don't have to deal with them.
-4 - One of "Those" Anti-Furries. Committed blind basher incapable of being reasoned with. Unlike the previous category, the mere existence of furries seems to enrage them, causing them to actively seek furries out and harass them, or otherwise post malicious comments about them at every opportunity. To them, all furries are type 4 and therefore must be removed (or in a sickening jokingly sense, "exterminated" like regular animals). They might even oppose anthropomorphic animals in general because they see them as being inherently connected to furries.

Quotes / Furry Fandom
Real fur is frowned upon at all furry conventions, in the same sense that leaping in front of speeding locomotives is frowned upon at comic book conventions.
— Anthrocon CEO Uncle Kage, in response to PETA
I loved The Lion King when I was younger and I had a weird obsession with Nala. Look at her face, she’s so sweet, and she can sing really well!
—Eddie Redmayne
I think we, humans, find things covered in hair more cute. We're more attracted to things covered in hair.
— TheOdd1sOut
She's the kind of chick that turns heads, like Jessica Rabbit or that anthropomorphic fox on the Animaniacs.
—Noah Antwiler on Tomie: Rebirth
"When people hate, I just remember, we're furries, we embarrass ourselves every day! What can people say to make it worse?"
— Roxy Rat
That ducknote  is smart. And apparently on the internet, that duck is very sexy to some people. That's OK. I ain't gonna judge anybody, 'cause... you'll do you, and I'll do me. And we won't do each other—probably.
—Markiplier plays Five Nights at Freddy's
Curse you, Cameron, for making me "OK" with soft core berry-blue flavored furry tiger smut!'!
— Torg from Sluggy Freelance
Yeah, sure. Furries are the only people in the world who have sex and everyone else is just jealous.
— Uncle Kage
Freud said that the only unusual sexual behavior was not to have any at all.
—Grissom, CSI
You'd be surprised how many fetishes there are involving Sam and me.
— Max, Sam & Max: The Penal Zone
They dress up like animals and then don't have sex with one another? That is so twisted.
— Montana Diaz Herrera, Back To You
Some people tell me, 'You only go to these conventions to have sex!', to which I reply, 'Go over there. Do ANY of those people look like they've EVER had sex?!'
— Uncle Kage, at Furry Weekend Atlanta '10
I'm a Furry; of course I'm obsessed with sex. I never get any.
— Harley Quinn Hyenaholic
(referring to Chewbacca's family)
Alright, terrifying thought, but I'm charging ahead with it. If you're a furry, are you turned on?
— Mike Nelson on the Rifftrax for The Star Wars Holiday Special.note 
Contrary to normie belief, the brony fandom was one of the most significant ones in the development of Web culture, creating a community which sent the clear message that it's okay for grown-ass men to like cartoons, which always had that stigma of being a children's medium even more than anime did. It was an Internet revolution, bringing with it a culture of artists and musicians that dominated the web, not like a cancer, but like a mutation, changing all that it touched to be a little bit lighter and softer. If anything, I would credit them for making furries popular in the eyes of people who wouldn't otherwise consider it - it's only a small jump from horse fan to furry fuck (source: former horse fan, now furry fuck).
—Froghand

Useful Notes / Juggalo
"What is a Juggalo?" This line begins a song of the same name by Insane Clown Posse. The song, however, doesn't actually explain what a Juggalo is, since it basically descends into ICP's trademark-style humor. However, hidden within the comedic song is an indication that ICP themselves don't even have a predetermined, universal definition of what a Juggalo is, as the song gives the following definition: "A Juggalo. That's what it is, well, fuck if I know."
Due to Public Medium Ignorance, the concept of what a Juggalo is is very alien to many who get their knowledge and perception of Juggalos from biased accounts of and false allegations of Juggalos. Offered here is an attempt to clear up some misconceptions of Juggalos and try to make this subculture easier to understand to outsiders who are not a part of this subculture.
Before there were Juggalos, there were "Floobs".
Insane Clown Posse member Violent J's real name is Joseph Bruce. In the 1980s, Bruce and his family, which included his brother Robert, his sister, and his mom, lived in poverty in the lower class area of Michigan. They received all their clothes from rummage sales, and their food from canned food drives held at their own school. Because they weren't financially well-off, they were ostracized, but they were not ashamed of being poor, and instead embraced who they were and their outsider status, calling themselves Floobs.
This is not to imply that being a Juggalo means being economically poor, however. As ICP's Shaggy 2 Dope (real name: Joseph Utsler) explains (quoted on the main page for Juggalo), a Juggalo may come from any walk of life. A Juggalo can be a rich man, a poor man, come from any ethnicity or color, any religion or no religion (there are both Juggalo Atheists and Juggalo Christians), and, indeed, a Juggalo isn't necessarily a fan of Insane Clown Posse, although those that identify most heavily with the Juggalo culture are usually fans of the music of Insane Clown Posse, Psychopathic Records, and various artists and labels associated with this culture.
So, what is a Juggalo, anyway?
ICP and various Psychopathic artists have encouraged their fans to think for themselves and stand out as individuals in numerous songs. This isn't just off-hand advice; this is what a Juggalo is supposed to be. The concept being that fans of ICP ignored the opinions of the music group's critics and dismissers and made up their own minds as to their opinions of ICP, their music and their lyrics, thus thinking for themselves, in contrast to the collective mindset of mainstream music fandom, which is based largely upon trends.
Juggalos, on the other hand, do not enjoy music on the basis of popularity, being that ICP are widely despised by mainstream media and among many music listeners. Fans of ICP do not listen to this group because they are popular and well-liked, but because they just happen to like the music and identify with ICP's outsider status within some of their own lyrics, but also within the music industry in general. Juggalos may enjoy some artists that are popular or well-liked at any given point in time, but not because of the fact that the artists are popular or well-liked, but because they simply happen to enjoy those artists. Furthermore, if a Juggalo genuinely enjoys any given band, rapper or musician, he continues to listen to them regardless of whether they are still popular.
This is part of the motivation of why Psychopathic Records has casted "washed up" actors in their film productions, or invited musicians who were once very popular and well-liked, but are currently unpopular or disliked, to perform at the Psychopathic Records festival "The Gathering of the Juggalos". Violent J has stated, perhaps tongue-in-cheek, the opinion that he likes musicians more when they are no longer popular. (Despite this, Violent J has admitted to liking some popular musicians, particularly Michael Jackson, whom he is a huge admirer of.) Thus, musicians that may not be hugely successful nowadays often play the Gathering of the Juggalos, because ICP may be admirers of them, or Juggalos might have asked for them to perform, no matter how successful or well-liked they are.
Consider this if you're not a Juggalo: If you genuinely like a musician, would you still like them if they ceased to be popular? If not, did you genuinely like their music, or did you simply like them because they were popular? For example, did you stop liking MC Hammer after he lost all his money? Or, did you stop being a KISS fan after they were no longer successful? (KISS was huge in the '70s, but not so much in the '80s and '90s, but have recently had a resurgence due to nostalgia from their old fans, and younger fans discovering their music.)
Many Juggalos also have an affinity with Ninjas, and have often greeted each other with the phrase "What up, Ninja?" This arose from a mid-90s ICP song called "Ninja", in which ICP did much the same thing, but the concept of Juggalos as Ninjas is much older than that. In Violent J's book Behind the Paint, Violent J described using "ninja tactics" to promote the early Insane Clown Posse concerts/albums (as well as those of their former gangsta rap incarnation, the Inner City Posse), and sneaking in posters and promotional flyers in unexpected places without being scene by security guards, etc. In this interpretation, a Juggalo is someone with the drive to achieve what they want, even if they lack the economic means. Through these "ninja tactics", ICP built up a following without mainstream promotion or corporate support.
Also, getting back to "What Is A Juggalo?", while that song is clearly intended to be comedic, it also contains an alternate interpretation that being a Juggalo simply means Being Yourself, even if you happen to be insane, as all of the actions described in the song are clearly crazy. However, though this interpretation has been carried over by many people connected to ICP fandom, Juggalos have a different interpretation. ICP's "Joker's Card" albums—Carnival of Carnage, Ringmaster, Riddle Box, The Great Milenko, The Amazing Jeckel Brothers and The Wraith—actually advise being a better self, meaning that you can be true to yourself only as far as you don't bring harm to others. The lyrics which reference murder and the occult are solely meant for entertainment, and, in some cases, a morality play, and ICP has stated repeatedly that they do not want to be associated with any person who commits violence, crime or murder in their name. Thusly, it is obvious that simply being yourself is not the message of ICP's works, but that they believe that individuals should improve themselves and be the best person they can possibly be.
Do Juggalos share any beliefs?
Insane Clown Posse, in particular, also expresses some views within their music that are mixed in with their horror-themed and comedic songs for storytelling purposes that some Juggalos express agreement with. ICP hates racist people, an aspect that, again, arose from Violent J's youth, when, while living with his brother Jumpsteady, he witnessed many neighbors expressing racism towards Violent J and Jumpsteady's black friends (and Jumpsteady's then-girlfriend, who was African American). Many of ICP's songs express opposition to racism, a sentiment shared by all Juggalos. ICP have openly stated that individuals with racist beliefs should not associate with ICP's music or Juggalo culture, and that being a Juggalo stands in sharp opposition to any form of racism or intolerance towards someone for being who they are. Since this includes homosexuals, there are many pro-LGBT Juggalo groups, and gay/lesbian/bisexual/transgender Juggalos.
Politically, there is no prerequisite for having any specific views to be a Juggalo. Thusly, one who is a liberal, an anarchist, a libertarian, a conservative or a socialist may be a Juggalo because they embrace ICP's individualistic and free thinking leanings. ICP have remained politically neutral, although they have previously stated that they are registered Democrats. But they have also expressed some anarchist beliefs; in one interview; Violent J said that it would be more peaceful if there were no police.
It should be noted, however, that many of the public statements made by ICP are very tongue-in-cheek, and Juggalos have continued this brand of humor by making bizarre and outlandish statements. Thus, this sense of humor is a strong requirement to being a Juggalo, with an alternate interpretation of what a Juggalo is being "someone who doesn't give a fuck". Also, Juggalos may sometimes have good intentions, but bad ideas, as suggested in the ICP song "We Belong". Generally, though, Juggalos vary from person to person, and cannot be grouped together as being one specific thing.
There is one thing Juggalos are politically adamant about: Juggalos are not a gang, no matter what Jeff Sessions and the FBI say. This led to a pretty big march of Juggalos in Washington in 2017, which was (1) completely peaceful and (2) bigger than a competing pro-Donald Trump march that day.
Are any superficial requirements to being a Juggalo?
Despite misconceptions, buying Psychopathic/ICP merchandise is not required to being a Juggalo. ICP have said repeatedly that they produce merchandise solely to make money to pay for their expensive concerts and album production, and that there is no requirement of any Juggalo to wear ICP merchandise. While Psychopathic obviously encourages Juggalos to buy their merchandise line, it's just so they can make money, and it's not a requirement to being a Juggalo. As Violent J stated in "Thy Unveiling", "don't buy our fuckin' action figures, bitch, I don't give a fuck!" Meaning, that the message of being true to yourself, as well as self-improvement, is more important than some T-shirt with the Psychopathic Records logo on it. There is no requirement to spend any money whatsoever in order to be a Juggalo.
ICP have even said that they don't care if their fans steal their albums, as long as they do it after the album has been released, although during the release of The Wraith: Shangri-La, Violent J specified that if fans were going to steal the album, they should steal the physical album (even offering advice on how to steal his own album!) and listen to it all the way through, instead of downloading a few tracks and listening to them out of context. Twiztid similarly said that they don't mind if some fans download albums when they can't afford it, as long as they pay for it when they can afford it.
Furthermore, it's not even required to wear face paint in order to be a Juggalo, especially since face paint is not exclusive to Insane Clown Posse: Alice Cooper, KISS, and numerous Horror Punk and Black Metal bands (especially The Misfits and King Diamond) have worn facepaint before such a thing as ICP or Juggalos ever existed.

Useful Notes / Lolita Fashion
"Yeah, Lolitas are great. Whoa-whoa-whoa okay wait, Lolis and Lolita complex, that's bad. Lolita fashion, that's something completely different. It's really cool, you should see it."
—Pan Pizza, Top 10 Animated GOTH Girls
Starfish Aliens aside, everything can be a cute girl.
Lolita fashion is a style of fashion originating from Japan, characterized by puffy skirts, frills, loads of accessories, large ribbons and a huge emphasis on keeping a cute, innocent, elegant, Victorian doll-like appearance. There may be Fairy Tale elements thrown in for good measure (though not always). Corsets and gowns are sometimes worn as well.
Lolita fashion is a subculture with rather obscure origins. The origin of the meaning is complex and remains unclear, but it is likely that the movement started in the late 1970s and 1980s in the streets of Japan. It almost coincided with the formation of other fashion subcultures such as Visual Kei, though it didn't gain much attention until The '90s, due to the ever-increasing popularity of the style among Visual Kei artists, one of the most notable being Mana of Malice Mizer, who coined the term "Elegant Gothic Lolita" to describe his own line of fashion merchandise. Other styles soon became popular, and the subculture soon spread to Tokyo where it became popular among the Japanese youth. Eventually, Lolita fashion would gain worldwide popularity and become popular in scenes outside Japan.
Lolita dresses aren't just for girls — male Lolitas are more than welcome! It's also not just for teenagers. There are plenty of Lolitas in their 30's, 40's, and older.
The fashion has a complex nature, and there are rules as to what can be called Lolita. Coordinate and accessory choices range from subtle to extreme, and other aesthetics can be thrown in and made to work with the basics of the style, as long as it sticks to being (mostly) cute and feminine. With that said, Lolita fashion can be divided into many subsets, the most common being:
Elegant Gothic Lolita: or simply "Gothic Lolita" is the most established and well-known of all the Lolita styles, to the point where all other styles of Lolita are sometimes mistakenly referred to as "Elegant Gothic Lolita", much to the disdain of some. As the name suggests, it fuses Gothic and Lolita together: puffy, pimped-out dresses, loads of accessories, ribbons, mostly black, plenty of crosses, religious motifs, veils and vampire overtones. The hair may be dyed and in Ojou Ringlets, though, as with Goth, any hairstyles in black are pretty common. The style was made popular and the name coined by Mana of Malice Mizer (see above) with his own brand of clothing and is usually worn by many Visual Kei artists as well as fans.
Brands that specialize in Gothic Lolita include: Moi-Meme-Moitie, Antique Beast, Atelier Boz, Atelier Pierrot, Alice and the Pirates and Baby the Stars Shine Bright carry some Gothic as well.
Sweet Lolita: also called "Ama Lolita" or "AmaLoli", characterized by brighter, more colorful aesthetics, focusing more on the cute than elegant. Fairy Tale themes are very common; sweets, pastries, toys, flowers, fruits and cute animals are commonly used themes as well. Coordinates tend to be colorful and highly intricate, and bright colors such as pink, pastel yellow, white, sax blue, pale yellow, lavender and red have become the norm. If that wasn't enough for you there is Over-the-Top (OTT) Sweet Lolita which takes it to a whole new level, known for very fancy, very colorful hair, dresses with energetic pastel prints, coordinates consisting of nearly the entire pastel rainbow, and elements of Decora in accessorizing, creating an image of extreme childlikeness.
Brands that specialize in Sweet Lolita include: Angelic Pretty, Baby the Stars Shine Bright and Metamorphose
Classic Lolita: arguably the "parent" style where the other styles draw inspiration from. It is a mature and modest style that draws heavily from Rococo and Victorian-era clothing. The stylings are between the Gothic and Sweet styles, with more emphasis on creating a natural-looking appearance: it is Darker and Edgier (though usually just more mature and elegant) than Sweet Lolita, but Lighter and Softer than Gothic Lolita. Coordinates are usually exquisite and more grownup-looking than in other styles, with A-line skirts, corsets, muted colors and classy fabrics like florals adding to the look. Accessories are kept to a minimum, but the Nice Hat is fairly common, as well as very beautiful, intricate jewelry. Kanon Wakeshima is this.
Although more commonly associated with understated elegance and considered the more subtle styles, Classic Lolita does have an Over-The-Top element, becoming extreme opulence with large bonnets, and overload of accessories like pearls, cameos and roses, and skirts layered over skirts, some of which are at ankle-length.
Brands that specialize in Classic Lolita include: Innocent World, Mary Magdalene, Victorian Maiden and Juliette et Justine. Check Triple Fortune for examples of opulent OTT Classic Lolita.
Gothic, Sweet, and Classic are often considered "the big three", as they are the most commonly worn and well-known styles. There are many other defined styles, including:
Punk Lolita: Defined by less emphasis on the Lolita image and more on darker, punkier styles. It draws heavily from punk fashion (Heavy Metal fashion is fairly popular as well), but stays true to the Lolita silhouette (though not always). The image is usually stripped-down and very difficult to achieve, and is usually characterized by blouses, band shirts, jackets and skirts instead of dresses. Boots are worn instead of Mary Janes or platform shoes. Leather accessories are very common, sometimes used in excess. Zippers are also used as decorative accents and a typical Punk Lolita coordinate will involve plaid. Punk Lolita usually features Anime Hair in one form or another, and styles start looking a bit more like Visual Kei than Lolita. Less-flashy Punk Lolita styles resemble Emo or Perky Goth styles to some extent. While not a Lolita designer, Vivienne Westwood is very popular in this scene for her Japanese punk fashion collections.
Punk Lolita used to be very popular in the beginnings of Lolita fashion, but it has now diminished in popularity, with Sweet Lolita taking the center stage.
Brands that specialize in Punk Lolita include: Putumayo
Shiro Lolita: Lolita all in white. White wigs can be worn to match with the white fabrics, but natural colored hair and wigs are more common. Many outfits showcase a wedding theme, complete with kid gloves and veils. Common with Guro Lolita at times due to the typical "broken-bloodsplattered-doll-all-in-white" look.
Shiro Lolita is often considered simply a color scheme and not a proper sub-style at all.
Kuro Lolita: Lolita all in black. Hair is can be dyed black or black wigs can be worn to match the clothing, but other neutral hair colors are also common. Many outfits showcase a funeral theme. Usually crosses over with Gothic Lolita, which generates a lot of confusion for the average person, considering how stylistically similar the two subsets are already.
Like Shiro Lolita, Kuro Lolita is often considered simply a color scheme rather than a true sub-style.
Hime Lolita: What happens when Disney Princess meets Lolita fashion with influences from Hime Gyaru. The Hime Lolita style focuses on achieving a very extravagant, high-end, wealthy noble/princess look. Outfits are usually very colorful, embellished with gold thread, regal patterns and plenty of gems and sparkles. Accessories associated with royalty and nobility, such as crowns, tiaras, scepters and robes are used frequently. The style is quite rare, due to the cost involved and the complexity associated with the style. Hizaki of Versailles is well-known for this.
Baby the Stars Shine Bright puts out some extremely luxurious and elegant dresses for this, and Triple Fortune does too.
Wa Lolita: Characterized by an emphasis on traditional Japanese styles. Dresses resemble kimonos with long kimono sleeves and puffy bottoms, and traditional footwear like geta are worn instead of doll shoes. The overall style bears some resemblance to Touhou characters. Brands such as OzzOn make great pieces in this style.
Qi Lolita: Similar to Wa Lolita, but uses Chinese clothing and accessories in place of Japanese. The outfit is usually a qipao modified to accommodate a petticoat, and bun-covers as hair accessories. Kasen Ibaraki and Hong Meiling from Touhou showcase this style. Also quite rare and such dresses are more commonly produced by independent online shops on Taobao (Chinese Ebay, which explains a lot)
Ero Lolita: Exactly What It Says on the Tin. It focuses on a Hotter and Sexier image while retaining the modesty of Lolita. Common garments include thigh-high stockings, garter belts, leather, corsets, bustiers and shorter skirts. Can sometimes have Too Many Belts. A rather controversial subset, as making use of revealing attire while trying to maintain a modest appearance means that things can go horribly wrong, and most Ero Lolita outfits are subject to debate by the Lolita community whether or not they can actually be considered lolita. Ero Lolita is also a rare sub-style among lolitas, due to aforementioned controversy and difficulty in pulling it off well. miko of exist†trace and Yui Itsuki of Yousei Teikoku often wear attire that can be described as this.
Guro Lolita: The subset of Lolita that concerned parents hate; it is Bloodier and Gorier than other Lolita styles, and also the darkest, most extreme style of them all. The style follows the basic Lolita silhouette, but focuses on a "broken doll" image and features a whole lot of Gorn, complete with distressed fabrics (white being a favorite color, as it contrasts well with red), torn-up clothes, bandages, messy hair, heavy makeup and fake blood. Slasher film-inspired elements such as fake wounds, slit wrists, bloody weapon props and corpse paint are very popular. The style takes cues from Emo at times, and might come across as being wangsty, but does not promote self-harm. A lot of Guro Lolis base their style off medical themes and zombies. Generally not an everyday style for Lolitas and usually reserved for certain occasions.
Sailor Lolita: The Sailor Lolita look incorporates a nautical or schoolgirl theme, and may include sailor collars, ties, hats, nautical stripes, pleats and such. Outfits tend to start looking like Lolita versions of Japanese school uniforms. Sailor Lolita is actually quite common (albeit seasonal); brands like Angelic Pretty, Baby the Stars Shine Bright, Metamorphose, Innocent World and Victorian Maiden usually release Sailor Lolita collections in the summer.
Pirate Lolita: A subset of Sailor Lolita that is more heavily based on pirate themes. Usually incorporates elaborate, pirate-style outfits à la Pirates of the Caribbean, complete with eyepatches, plenty of belts, leather, treasure chest-styled bags, ruffly blouses with jabots and sword/gun props. The look isn't complete without tons of jewelry or an elaborately feathered tricorn hat. Mostly popularized and supplied by Alice and the Pirates.
Casual Lolita: A more toned-down, contemporary version of Lolita fashion, usually worn when Lolitas need a break from too much frills or in their mundane life when they either can't or don't feel like dressing up. The image is stripped down to include nothing more than the basics, with only a few touches of more elaborate Lolita styles. Motifs are kept to a minimum, and designs usually draw inspiration from contemporary styles of clothing with the use of cardigans, hoodies and smaller headbows or hats like berets. Though the aesthetics are simple, it treads a very fine line between casual and Lolita, thus there can be certain issues in pulling it off. In general, the key to remaining Lolita in donning Casual Lolita would be to definitely include the silhouette of the puffy skirt.
Casual Lolita is usually not considered a proper substyle because it is just the toning down of other styles. So one can have Casual Classic Lolita, Casual Sweet, etc.
Ouji/Boystyle: Sometimes referred to as "kodona", this is the Spear Counterpart of Lolita fashion. The style aims to look like a young anime boy and includes blouses, shirts, puffy shorts, knee-high socks, male anime character or host hairstyles, top hats and leather shoes. . Though primarily targeted for boys, many girls also choose the style. Jyou and Omi of exist†trace showcase this. Alice and the Pirates is quite handy for frequent releases of this style.
Elegant Gothic Aristocrat: Arguably the darker, more badass version of Boystyle and Lolita. The style focuses on awesomeness and elegance. Expect to see the various forms of badass clothing (Badass Cape, Badass Longcoat, Badass Long Robe, etc...) being worn by someone somewhere in the sub-scene. Also expect to see cool headgear being worn. If headgear aren't worn, expect to see '80s Hair and other full-looking hairstyles. The style usually bears a resemblance to Edwardian, classic gangster, or Mafia fashion styles in its least impressive form, and royal fashion in its most extreme. Crosses over with Visual Kei. As an androgynous style, it caters to both men and women, and Aristocrat outfits can be worn by both sexes. Versailles is this. Gackt used to be and still has elements of this. Moi-Meme-Moitie is an example of a brand that regularly has EGA clothes.
A comprehensive list and description of the most prominent sub-styles of lolita fashion can be found somewhere else. The link that used to be here was dangerous. As with other alternative fashions, there are numerous exceptions. Lolita styles often cross over with other Lolita styles and draw influences from other styles (Steampunk, Goth — usually Romantic, Dolly Kei, Fairy Kei, Hime Gyaru, Mori Girl, etc.)
Occasionally overlaps with Visual Kei. Can also overlap with Fairytale Wedding Dress, Impractically Fancy Outfit, and Parasol of Prettiness. See also Costume Porn, Awesome Anachronistic Apparel, Graceful Ladies Like Purple, and other related tropes. Has absolutely NOTHING to do with the infamous novel of the same name (even the mere mention of it would incite outrage among members of the subculture). Has their own dedicated magazine, the quarterly published ''Gothic and Lolita Bible".
Notable Lolita fashion labels:
Moi-même-Moitié: Mana's fashion label, founded in 1999. Popularized the Elegant Gothic Lolita and Elegant Gothic Aristocrat styles. The label sells clothes, bags, accessories and other merch.
Angelic Pretty: a fashion company created in 1979, and specializing in Sweet Lolita clothing known for their bright, highly-sought after designer printed dresses, and more general cuteness than elegance. Generally accepted to have started OTT Sweet Lolita.
Baby, the Stars Shine Bright: created in 1988, focusing on Sweet Lolita although its general aesthetic of lacy elegance allows some of their dresses to fit into other styles like Classic and Gothic Lolita. Its sister brand Alice and the Pirates was created in 2004 with a darker, more Gothic spin, and produces a lot of clothes for Pirate Lolita. Baby, the Stars Shine Bright is the brand featured in the Lolita movie, Kamikaze Girls.
h.NAOTO: a fashion designer specializing in Punk and Gothic Lolita. He has designed Lolita outfits for Amy Lee as well as for Gackt, Hangry and Angry, Psycho le Cému and more.
Media inspired by, making references to, or showcasing Lolita Fashion (although the accuracy of the portrayal of the fashion is debatable):
Anime and Manga
Most Turn of the Millennium anime in general, especially Magical Girlfriend, Magical Girl, Iyashikei, shonen and most shoujo series, feature characters who dress up in Lolita clothing (most often, Elegant Gothic Lolita clothing) as a form of eye candy for otaku who are part of the Periphery Demographic, which is often wrongly viewed by outsiders as fans of "Lolicon" (and which is not welcome for discussion here).
That said, with the sheer amount of hate targeted at Lolicon and Shotacon, many anime and manga creators take care to develop characters that would not imply anything of an erotic nature and instead would appeal more to, let's say, Visual Kei fans, Goths or the Shōjo (Demographic), leading to more true-to-life depictions of lolis. For more specific examples, the Elegant Gothic Lolita has a list of them.
Of special mention is the manga/anime Rozen Maiden, whose plot centers on living Victorian dolls showcasing the various styles of Lolita Fashion turned Up to Eleven.
Suigintou is among the most easily recognizable for wearing the Elegant Gothic Lolita style.
Souseiseki has roughly the same palette as Suigintou, but dresses up in the Boystyle (ouji/kodona) style.
Suiseiseki is a Classic Lolita/Aristocrat, desu.
All of the dolls could be seen as different types of lolita in general. Hinaichigo is a Sweet Lolita, Kirakishou is a Classic Lolita (or a slightly more refined Sweet Lolita, take it either way), Shinku is an Aristocrat, and Kanaria is more like a mix of Classic Lolita and Elegant Gothic Aristocrat.
Maken-ki!: Kodama Himegami modernizes the concept by forgoing Victorian fashion in favor of present day clothing brands. Nearly everything she wear is dark silk trimmed with ribbon and lace, which is especially noticeable in her choice of lingerie: usually consisting of corsets, see-through teddies, thongs, garter belts, and nylons. All of which gives her the look of a Gothic Victoria's Secret fashion model.
Music
Gothic Metal and Symphonic Metal artists in general dress up in extravagant outfits that serve as a reflection of their fantasy-based themes. Commonly used styles are Elegant Gothic Lolita, Hime Lolita and Classic Lolita for women, and Boystyle/Aristocrat for men.
Usually taken Up to Eleven when such bands are female-fronted or have female vocalists; not only do they dress up in ostentatious attire, but also act like Lolitas and (though not always) take their Lolita personas offstage. Tarja Turunen of Nightwish and Cristina Scabbia of Lacuna Coil are particularly notable. Of special mention is Amy Lee of Evanescence, who brought the style closer to the Western Goth fanbase.
Many Visual Kei artists, even those who don't play Gothic Metal, wear Lolita clothing for Fanservice, either as a fetish or simply for added visual flair
Mana of Malice Mizer (mentioned above)
Kana
Kanon Wakeshima brought Lolita even closer to the mainstream with not only her Lolita-themed outfit and stage persona, but her Lolita-themed songs as well.
Yui Itsuki of Yousei Teikoku wears some form of Elegant Gothic Lolita clothing, but also showcases other styles, more specifically Ero and Classic Lolita.
Versailles. Of special mention is their guitarist, Hizaki who is a man wearing a full Rococo-inspired Hime Lolita dress.
Some ex-Visual Kei/post-Visual artists have worn Lolita clothing in one form or another to rather epic results, examples include Dir en grey's Shinya and Blood Stain Child's Ryu.
Victoriandustrial violinist Emilie Autumn drew some ire from the Lolita community a while back by titling a song about sexual abuse suffered as a child "Gothic Lolita". Autumn explained that she was trying to refer to the book, but appreciated Lolita style, and the fuss eventually died down. She now has something of a fanbase in the Lolita community, many of whom dress up for her concerts, though she herself does not wear Lolita.
The video clip forVoltaire's song "Haapy birthday (My old friend)" features Lolitas, all of them real lolitas who were Voltaire's MySpace friends
The looks of Goth Rock band Strawberry Switchblade fall into this sometimes-
Video Games
Lolitas in Japanese video games (and some Western games) are almost as ubiquitous as their Anime counterparts, due to Periphery Demographic appeal.
Special mention goes to the Touhou franchise by ZUN, which takes Lolita to extremes. The entire series features Loads and Loads of Characters dressed in some form of Lolita clothing, (with some characters progressively lolified in later releases) battling it out in eye-catching Bullet Hell duels.
Another shooter, Death Smiles, features GothLoli characters.
Pokémon has a few characters (and some Mons) showcasing Lolita design elements. One of the most recognizable lolitas in the series is Mai (Marley), one of five trainers the player can team up with in the Gen. IV games. The Gothitelle evolutionary family from Gen. V showcases the Gothic Lolita style.
A new trainer class called "Fairy Tale Girl" appeared in Generation VI, coinciding with the introduction of the Fairy type and exclusively specializing in said type, which dresses in Sweet Lolita style. This generation also introduced Valerie, the first Fairy-type gym leader in the series who is a fashion designer that dresses in the Wa style.
Gothorita evolution line is pretty much a parody of the fashion.
In fighting games, it has become increasingly common for cute bruisers to be depicted as wearing some form of Lolita clothing, often as a way to highlight their Badass Adorable tendencies.
Movies
Kamikaze Girls — the main character Momoko. Notably a piece of work that is actually dedicated to the style and one that portrays it completely accurately (though a version of Lolita in 2004 that is rather old-fashioned style of Lolita compared to what it is today,) even getting Lolita brand Baby the Stars Shine Bright to supply the clothes.
The Lolita subculture, as well as the people associated with it, provide or have provided examples of the following tropes:
Adults Dressed as Children / Age-Inappropriate Dress: The majority of Lolitas are teenagers or adults who dress like prepubescent princesses. Possible implications aside, it works and is awesome.
Averted with the more mature Aristocrat style (and Classic Lolita to an extent), where the main point is to look as badass and classy as possible.
All Women Love Shoes. Shoes are an essential part of any Lolita style, the archetypal shoe for the lolita is the Mary Jane.
Always Female: Lolita fashion is primarily targeted at a female youth subculture. In recent years, however, males are starting to get into it as well, due to the increasing popularity of Lolita styles in the Japanese music scene (in particular, Visual Kei) as well as in various Anime series.
Ambiguous Gender: Mana of Malice Mizer, the Trope Maker and Trope Namer for Elegant Gothic Lolita, and Hizaki of Versailles fit this trope to a T. Also happens a lot in the Boystyle scene, due to the high number of female-to-male crossdressers in the scene, but maintaining a highly androgynous appearance is the hallmark of the Aristocrat style, where achieving an elegant but genderless appearance is generally observed.
Anime Hair: Developed alongside Anime and Visual Kei. Currently, Sweet Lolita hairstyles tend to lean more towards Magical Girl styles, while darker Lolita styles tend to be more subdued. Hime Lolita with Hime Gyaru influences tend to require a curled, bouffant hairstyle. Aristocrat hairstyles lean more towards '80s Hair and other "big" hairstyles, but not always.
Awesome Anachronistic Apparel: Victorian-era clothing in a modern setting? Sounds awesome.
Berserk Button: REPLICA vs. BRAND. Bringing this up on any Lolita fashion forum is guaranteed to cause trouble and drama, with neither sides sparing words and generally being very, very vicious. Both sides, ironically, claim that the opposition cares too much about labels.
On one hand the replica side states that many items are not accessible to people in other countries, and replicas are simply supplying a demand, not to mention that not all brands are made equal and their quality doesn't always justify the prices.
The brand side argues that many popular brands are, despite online popularity, very small compared to mainstream brands and replicas just hurt their already small profits, and if people genuinely enjoy wearing Lolita, they would buy and give support from cheaper, independent brands or simply make their own instead of essentially buying knockoffs.
Stating that Lolita Fashion has anything to do with pedophilia, is a sexual fetish, or is just cosplay. Just don't.
Bishōnen / Biseinen: Men who wear Boystyle and Aristocrat outfits, respectively.
Bifauxnen: Female-to-male Boystyle crossdressers
Blood-Splattered Wedding Dress: Common in Guro Lolita.
Broken Base: The whole scene tends to be this, considering the large and ever-increasing number of those who adhere to specific sub-sets, and also depending on how seriously certain individuals take dressing in Lolita.
Classical Movie Vampire: A common look in the Gothic Lolita and Aristocrat styles.
Classy Cravat: Very popular in the Gothic, Classic and Aristocrat scenes.
Cleavage Window: A common element in some more mature designs such as in Classic, Gothic and Hime, though it is usually not cleavage but actually decolletage in adhering to Lolita's standards of modesty. More common in Ero Lolita outfits, for obvious reasons.
Coat Cape: Sometimes seen in Boystyle, especially designs with more Punk or costume-y influences
Coat, Hat, Mask: A fairly common combination in the Aristocrat style, and adds to the dark, mysterious look.
Conspicuous Consumption: One of Lolita's defining trait. Despite the rise in secondhand clothing and independent brands, owning a full lolita wardrobe, clothing and accessories, is still a costly investment. It isn't unusual- indeed, it's expected- to drop more than $200 on a new coordinate set. Even more "affordable" brands rarely sell for less than $100.
Cool Crown: Often seen in Hime Lolita and is a recurring motif in the fashion.
Cool Shades: Rarely used, but not unheard of, especially with Lolitas who have Visual Kei leanings or those trying to look casual.
Cosplay: Happens rather frequently in the scene, where creating "lolitafied" versions of fictional characters' clothes are common. A few lolita dresses put out by brands emulate well-known characters such as Baby the Stars Shine Bright putting out a Snow White dress that's very similar to the 1937 Disney version. Though it's not a very good idea to call the fashion itself a cosplay to a Lolita...
Costume Copycat: Happens frequently among those who are only starting to get into the subculture. Reactions from veterans are mixed, ranging from support and encouragement to disgust and outrage.
Costume Porn: The number of possible looks and styles are virtually limitless, despite being based on only one silhouette. Fans of the fashion often argue about what can be considered "Lolita" but generally, any style can be made to fit, in one way or another, after some modification.
Darker and Edgier: Kuro Lolita, being a darker version of Classic or Sweet. Gothic Lolita is even darker than Kuro, and Guro is arguably the most extreme of the styles, being more explicit and more disturbing. Punk Lolita is seen similarly as well.
Distaff Counterpart: Widely considered to be this to Visual Kei, since their origins can be traced at around the same period (late 1970s-early 1980s). However, there are also males who adopt the style, whether for VK performances or simply for shock and awe.
Spear Counterpart: Boystyle, a sub-set of Lolita where girls dress up as pretty boys with puffy pants. Aristocrat, while an androgynous style, is also considered as this.
Dress Code: The basic requirements for Lolita are as follows: a puffy Pimped-Out Dress, frills, ribbons, a general look of modesty, elegance and cuteness, and stylish accessories. Anything more is fine (in fact, Lolitas are actively seeking out more and are trying to outdo each other), but anything less would not be considered Lolita under normal circumstances. Punk Lolita averts this, since it loosely adheres to the formula, with only the silhouette as the basic requirement.
No Dress Code: Though the subculture does allow personal freedom and exploration when it comes to creating personal styles.
Difficult, but Awesome: Arguably so. Lolita is infamous for the extreme difficulty of pulling the look off (considering that one must adhere to a specific set of dress rules but said rules tend to be ill-defined) but when done properly and creatively, the end result is nothing short of awesome.
Dude Looks Like a Lady: More common than it seems in the subculture. Justified by the fact that many important personalities in the Lolita subculture are feminine-looking men.
Emo Teen: Possible aesthetic choices for Gothic Lolita and Guro Lolita.
Eyepatch of Power: Common in Pirate and Guro Lolita.
Fairytale Wedding Dress: Any of the styles, with Shiro Lolita, Hime Lolita and to a lesser extent, Gothic Lolita, fitting this trope to a T.
Fanservice: Generally averted and looked down upon in the subculture, as Lolita seeks to de-sexualize females and members of the subculture try to avoid and erase any connotations or implications caused by misassociation with the abovementioned novel. Subverted in the Ero Lolita scene, though, as it emphasizes the Hotter and Sexier side of the subculture, while maintaining the modesty the scene tries to promote.
Fluffy Fashion Feathers: A commonly used element in Lolita design. Usually used in the more mature styles.
French Maid Outfit: Commonly misassociated with Lolita fashion. Sweet Lolita occasionally dresses have elements of this, though.
Frills of Justice: Most commonly seen in Sweet Lolita and very often seen as a symbol of cute, fantastical, and fairy-like qualities typically associated with the style.
Frilly Upgrade: Happens rather frequently as members of the subculture delve deeper and discover more styles.
It actually makes sense to upgrade one's wardrobe as one discovers more styles, and, according to many Lolitas, may actually be helpful in getting used to the subculture and its demands. Given the cost of outfits and difficulty of acquiring them, many newbies to the subculture start off by making/buying at least one outfit (preferably a simple one, to keep costs down) and just stock up on inexpensive but decent accessories over time (as an expansion pack of sorts) while saving up cash for higher-end outfits and accessories until they can make/purchase their desired coordinate set. The same process applies to Lolitas who wish to change styles.
This is basically what happens in Lolita Cosplay, when Lolitas lolita-fy the clothes of fictional characters. Add lace, ruffles, femininity, and you're set!
From Dress to Dressing: Optional, but commonly seen in Guro Lolita.
Germans Love David Hasselhoff: Vivienne Westwood, an English fashion designer, is highly popular in the Japanese Punk Lolita scene. Also, Amy Lee is very popular among Japanese fans of Elegant Gothic Lolita (the same thing applies to Cristina Scabbia, Emilie Autumn,Tarja Turunen and pretty much every female Gothic artist out there).
The same can be said for the fashion in general. Most styles are based off classic European designs, and some Lolita models are European, but the style is more popular in Japan than anywhere else. Ditto for Japanese Lolita designs that become popular elsewhere.
Giant Poofy Sleeves: Extremely common in all styles with the notable exception of Ero Lolita and Aristocrat, where more form-fitting sleeves are often considered desirable.
Gorn: The defining feature of Guro Lolita. Can be very subtle and tame to so extreme that wearers of Guro Lolita tend to look like female Black Metal artists.
Graceful Ladies Like Purple: Lavender is common in sweet lolita, and other shades of purple like plum are featured (although somewhat uncommon) in other styles as well.
Hell-Bent for Leather: Punk Lolita frequently make uses of leather accessories, though it isn't a requirement. Ero Lolita have made this a defining feature. with some designs having leather accessories all over the place.
Hotter and Sexier: Ero Lolita. Nuff said.
Iconic Outfit: Many Japanese (and some non-Japanese) artists/musicians/models have become well-known for sporting a Lolita image, to the point where they have made the style their "hat". Some of the most notable include Amy Lee of Evanescence, Kanon Wakeshima, Kyary Pamyu Pamyu, Mana, Gackt, Kaya and the members of Versailles.
Improbable Hairstyle: Not necessarily a requirement, but many Lolitas do crazy things to their hair. By tying it up in pigtails, weaving it in braids, dyeing it in different colors, etc..., they can achieve a rather complex, sophisticated look.
Wigs and hairpieces are a popular (but optional) item among lolitas for this reason.
Impossibly Cool Clothes / Impractically Fancy Outfit: The main thing that defines Lolita fashion. It gets crazier as you go to the more OTT styles.
In the Hood: Optional, but darker styles include hoods in some designs.
Incongruously Dressed Zombie: One of the more popular Guro Lolita looks, complete with plenty of blood stains, fake wounds/bite marks, and lots of makeup.
Kimono Fanservice / Kimono Is Traditional: Wa Lolita. Very elegant and classy in an oddly traditional way. Though it doesn't come cheap and is deceptively difficult to pull off.
Some brands have put out yukata outfits for their summer lines. YMMV on whether it counts as Lolita or not.
Labcoat of Science and Medicine: Sometimes seen in Guro Lolita, and adds to the creepy factor.
Lighter and Softer: Sweet Lolita. It's also the more sugary variant of Lolita, and anything associated with it oozes with Moe.
Magical Girl: Invoked in the Lighter and Softer variants (Sweet, Shiro, Sailor in some occasions), to the point where adherents to those sub-styles start looking eerily similar to Sailor Moon, Puella Magi Madoka Magica, or Touhou characters.
Man in a Kilt: Uncommon, but they do exist in the subculture, especially in the subculture's fringes. It is helped by the fact that many Visual Kei bands and artists have worn Lolita outfits and flaunted them frequently in live shows and music videos.
Meido: Invoked in so many styles that outsiders tend to associate this trope with the subculture.
The Merch: A very large part of the Lolita experience. One cannot be a part of the subculture without some form of Lolita clothing. Thankfully, the market for Lolita clothing is HUGE, though there can simply be too many clothing lines to choose from especially with the rise in independent lolita brands. In recent years, there has been an increase in secondhand and consignment shops that specialize in Lolita fashion, eliminating the issue of affordability for many wearers.
Nausea Fuel / Nightmare Fuel: Guro Lolita. The idea of cute Victorian doll-like girls having slit wrists and drenched in their own blood would simply be sickening enough to incite outrage among those outside the subculture.
Then again, all of it is fake.
Nice Hat: A common fashion accessory associated with the more sophisticated styles. Very popular in the Aristocrat, Boystyle, and Classic Lolita scenes, to the point that it's as common as showing hair, especially for members of the subculture who have day jobs, are keeping a low profile, are wearing them for some other reason, or simply showing off.
Nice Shoes: An essential part of all Lolita styles.
Of Corsets Sexy: Common in Ero Lolita and Aristocrat.
Official Cosplay Gear: Popular Japanese Lolita brands qualify.
Ominous Opera Cape: Optional, but it adds a lot to the look of the darker, more badass styles.
One Size Fits All: Many clothing lines make clothes in one size that can make it difficult for larger girls to fit into.
Pink Means Feminine: One of the most common colors in the fashion, especially Sweet Lolita, where it gets overused.
Pimped-Out Cape and Pimped-Out Dress: For men and women, respectively, this has become a requirement. Use was pioneered by Gackt and Mana of Malice Mizer, respectively, and is now so ubiquitous that one cannot be called a part of the subculture if he/she doesn't wear these.
Pointless Bandaid: A common accessory in Guro Lolita
Pretty in Mink: Features prominently in many styles, especially in the higher-end designs.
Punk Punk: The range of Punk Lolita styles is actually broader than it seems. There's Steampunk Lolita, Cyberpunk Lolita, Diesel Punk Lolita etc...
The fashion in general has plenty of variants and counting.
Qipao: Qi Lolita cannot be called Qi Lolita without this.
Ring Around the Collar: Prominent in the classier styles.
Rule of Cool/Rule of Glamorous: Why Lolita fashion exists.
Sailor Fuku: Sailor Lolita is patterned after this.
Serious Business: The common stereotype of Lolitas holding tea parties in heavily decorated rooms while listening to Classical Music (or any music with "classical" elements) doesn't sound too exotic at all; in fact, some lolitas follow what is called a "Lolita lifestyle" where anything that adopts a similar aesthetic to Lolita (elegance and antiquity) is included in their lifestyle.
The lifestyle itself and the stereotype are exaggerated — some followers of the lifestyle go to extremes, lolifying most, if not all, aspects of their lifestyle to the point where it is nearly impossible to determine any dividing line between re-enactment/performance and actual lifestyle. Some just wear the clothes occasionally.
Actually, even non-lifestyle Lolitas stage Victorian-style parties and meet-ups with other Lolitas in cultural conventions and similar events.
Sexy Whatever Outfit: Ero Lolita as well as some cheap costumes.
She's Got Legs/He's Got Legs Usually seen in Boystyle and Ero Lolita. Though the fashion's ideals of modesty usually means that most Lolitas will be wearing tights or socks to cover their legs.
Tastes Like Diabetes: OTT Sweet Lolita. It's also sometimes The Scrappy of Lolita, and has gained many detractors, even among Sweet Lolitas, due to its massive mainstream appeal.
Speaking of The Scrappy, Casual Lolita also gets some hate for being a less classy, less-challenging, more mainstream version of the style, or it often gets pegged as "not Lolita enough".
Textile Work Is Feminine: Lolita fashion itself started out with young women making their own outfits from scratch, and to this day a DIY ethos is positively encouraged. High quality is still expected, mind you.
Too Many Belts: Many styles. Special mention goes to Pirate Lolita for associating this trope with the style. Ero Lolitas make use of useless garter belts. Aristocrats often make use of seemingly useless belts as well.
True Blue Femininity: Once of the most common colors in the fashion, especially in sweet lolita.
Useless Accessory: Plenty, including: anklets, bags, belts (see above), bonnets, bracelets, feathers, hats, hoods, lace, ribbons, scarves, etc. that occasionally serve no other purpose aside from being worn alongside a Pimped-Out Dress. The OTT versions of the various styles, as well as Kote Lolita, have made these a defining feature.
Un Built Trope: Compare pictures like these with current lolita dresses, there's a big difference and Lolita, which is a very experimental fashion, wasn't completely codified until the early 2000's. There's also even early subversion of the style when it didn't even had a name, the looks of Irish pop duo Strawberry Switchblade◊ are like the unholy daughter of lolita and Cyndi Lauper
Waistcoat of Style: Common in Boystyle and Aristocrat.
Wholesome Crossdresser: Crossdressing has become quite popular in the scene for men and women alike.
Zettai Ryouiki: Very common throughout the subculture with its use of kneesocks (and over-the-knee socks,) exposing a small bit of skin between the skirt and the socks.
Has gained some controversy in recent years due to that fact that Zettai Ryouiki is perceived as sexual in Japan, going against Lolita fashion's standards of modesty and desexualisation. This is becoming very popular lately among Boystyle/Ouji fans, since part of the standard outfit consists in wearing shorts with long socks, some adherents to this sub-division started to wear very short shorts with over the knee socks.
Zipperiffic: Punk Lolita designs sometimes incorporate plenty of zippers, simply because they adds to the "punky" look. Most of them are useless, though.

Useful Notes / Otherkin
Ashitaka: I am human. So are you.
San: Shut up! I'm a wolf!
— Princess Mononoke
Welcome to the world of Otherkin, a particularly unique subculture that has gained some attention online.
There are several variations on the Otherkin phenomenon, but at its most basic level it can defined as individuals who identify, spiritually or psychologically (though never physically), as something other than human. What species that the Otherkin do feel like can range from any ordinary animal to dragons, elves, angels, demons, vampires, lycanthropes and basically every fantastic being under the sun you've ever heard of and a considerable number that you haven't. Otherkin are often assumed to be claiming experiences similar to transgender people, but the similarities between the two experiences are only surface level.
Contrary to popular belief, Otherkin is not directly tied to the Furry Fandom. There are Otherkin who are not furries, and vice-versa, and while there are Otherkin furries, it is not a requirement for either group to belong to the other.
A subgroup of Otherkin is therianthropy. This belief is similar, but limits itself to real animals (though those who identify as mythical animals often consider themselves "theriomythic," a derivative term.) Some therians prefer to be disassociated with Otherkin for personal reasons, however, most at least agree that the two groups are very similar, and many simply use Otherkin as a blanket term.
Another subgroup would be vampires/vampyres and Fae. These usually have no connection to Furry Fandom at all (and associating them with such may be a Berserk Button) because they generally have little or nothing to do with animal motifs. They can also range from people who fully believe themselves to be human but are simply roleplaying, to people who believe that vampire or faerie mythology had a grain of truth to it and that the spiritual archetype describes their feelings/drives/emotions/physical needs, to people who actually believe they are vampires or faeries. For some this can be a part of religion as well (there is an entire subgroup in Neo-Paganism devoted to faerie magick).
The vampire/vampyre subgroup also has a split: those who actually consume blood, and those who believe that Life Energy is real in some form or another and consume it. That said, neither (except for the rare Serial Killer - which almost anyone active in the subculture will reject as a representative) generally believe in harming human beings for this - most of the "blood" type either engage in consensual bloodplay or consume animal blood/meat, and most of the "energy" type see themselves as "feeding" by simply being around other people or by sex.
Yet another non-animal, non-furry subgroup are the "celestials/angels" and "demons/daemons/chaos entities." Again, these can range from people who are simply roleplaying, to those who believe that mythological and religious stories of spiritual entities have a grain of truth that describes their lived experience, to people who actually believe they are such a being or have invited such a being into themselves. These have had actual varying degrees of acceptance in some recognized religious and mythological systems (some forms of paganism and Neo-Paganism embrace and play with the concepts, while some forms of Christianity believe the concepts are real but evil and to be rejected) Due to this, they are actually the most "mainstream" of otherkin and may not even see themselves as part of the "otherkin" community per se - simply as strong believers in a concept of their religion.
Two somewhat connected but different concepts, one more tied to reincarnation and the other a variant on the "spiritual being" variant above in a form of reincarnation, are the "old soul" and the "walk-in." Unlike Otherkin, in both cases, one of these can be (and most often is) considered to be a human being, though occasionally these are seen as gods/goddesses/angels/demons/etcetera as per the "spiritual being" variant of otherkin.
In the "old soul" variant, someone is seen as to have been reincarnated in one of the truest senses of the word - to either wholly or partially be the return of someone who has died and/or the human form of a god/goddess/etc, reborn as a newborn child. There are provisions in some existing world religions for this: it was present in ancient Greek religion, it is still present some sects of Buddhism and Hinduism. Therefore, while it is loosely tied to otherkin and shares similar roots mythologically (and some people who consider themselves one of these will identify as otherkin) it is a fairly mainstream religious concept, at least when expressed in certain ways.
In the "walk-in" variant, someone is seen to have become a Real Life Willing Channeler or Wetware Body at any point in their life for any of the above (whether dead human or animal or spiritual being). This is very similar to Otherkin, except it can and often does include humans as well as/instead of animals or spiritual beings. It's also an element of some mainstream religions (generally animist, pagan, and neopagan belief systems, and some forms of Christianity believe it exists but also believe it must be exorcised.). It also tends to be shared rather than a singular personality (e.g. two or more "souls" sharing one body, or the body being controlled by one soul who lets the others in as "guests"), though some people claiming the experience have claimed to have become their walk-in entirely, or have integrated due to viewing their experience as a result of trauma.
Yet another similar concept is the "fictionkin", who believe that they are a fictional character, the same way an otherkin believes they are an animal or mythological creature.
The first documentations about otherkin may go as far back as the Middle Ages during the era in which people were prosecuted because they were werewolves. Back then you could get prosecuted because the neighborhood didn't like you, in which case he attributed werewolvery to you (because what other reasons could you give for the cow that was flat out dead with all organs spattered all over the place). Believe it or not, some people that were prosecuted believed what the neighborhood said and they told all their "deeds" to the court. Scientists later on gathered evidence that in truth, they suffered from "lycantropia" or "werewolf illness".
Contrast with Daydream Believer.

Useful Notes / Pride Parade
Marchers: "We're here, we're queer, get used to it!"
Lisa: "You do this every year, we are used to it!"
—The Simpsons
LGBTQnote  Pride is an annual celebration of gender and sexual minorities. Held in many cities in many countries, the event's social status and inclusiveness vary wildly from place to place. For these parades in media, see Pride Parade. Regarding Real Life:
Origin
The two most common perspectives on the origin of the pride movement is that it started with parades for gay men and that it started with the Stonewall riots. Both versions are true, it's a matter of perspective. The first perspective is more peaceful but also more gay-centric, while the second perspective highlight the struggle for equality and that this struggle has never truly been about one single group.
At the riots there were all kinds of non-normative individuals present, with transgender people being one of the core groups. When the parades started, however, they were only about mainstream (and thus "respectable") gay men and lesbians, excluding everyone else. Of course, transgender people and other minorities was still welcome to participate as long as they kept a low profile and masqueraded as either being gay or as simply supporting the gays.
However, this Gay movement grew into LGBT, and later expanded into LGBTQ with the addition of queer theory and expanded perspectives on the nature of gender identity and sexual identity.
Inclusiveness
What minorities are included and what minorities are not vary from year to year and from place to place. Transgenderism is now acknowledged in most countries (although far from all), while sexual minorities such as fetishists and BDSM practitioners (active or otherwise) have started becoming an integral part of the movement in more and more countries. Of course, there is still a lot of tension in many places, with separate (and sometimes mutually hostile) subcultures such as Straight Gay, Camp Gay, Crossdressers, Transgender people, fetishists, and others coming to blows about what should and shouldn't be included.
Other groups that are often included are local ethnic gender identity minorities such as Native American Two-Spirits in the American Southwest. Straight allies and families of LGBTQ rights/people may also be in the march.
Criticism from within
In some communities, usually those where LGBTQ are mostly accepted and the community at large is "used to it," portions of the LGBTQ community object, sometimes strenuously, to Pride. To some, Pride and the parades have become crass and commercial, used purely as a vehicle for advertising gay-owned businesses or even just large corporations touting how accepting they are, and no longer serving a real purpose. This tends to go along with a strong emphasis on the Stonewall origins and assertions of being "Social Justice Activists." Generally includes a feeling that some of racial minorities, out-of-stereotypically-attractive body types, and/or the disabled aren't sufficiently included. For this reason, many cities also hold an "Anti-Pride" festival where the focus is explicitly on groups other than cisgender gay white men, such as Black Gay Pride, Trans Pride, Lesbian Pride, etc.
Sexualization - in the eye of the beholder
Of course, what's actually included and what someone notices may be two very different things. A well-behaved group may be mistaken for mainstream gay or even heterosexual (or simply be overlooked), while the most extremely dressed person in the entire parade becomes the poster-child for how all LGBTQ people supposedly behave. Even if the parade is purposely family-friendly, don't be surprised if someone starts shouting "Think of the Children!!" To what extent, if any, the parade is sexualized varies between different years and different places. The same parade can also get very different descriptions.
Parades and Pride Festivals
Pride is usually an all-day affair, with related events taking place over an entire week or weekend depending on the city. The day of the parade is often treated like an informal holiday in the LGBTQ community ("Happy Pride!" is an oft-heard greeting), with the Parade around noon, the festival in the afternoon, and the after-parties at night. In fiction, if a story is gay-centric, then the whole event might be featured. Most mainstream works, however, usually focus on the parade since that's what the general populace is exposed to the most.
Regarding other parades
However, parades that are not about gender and sexuality issues can count as subversions, inversions, Rule of Symbolism or similar if they are portrayed as "a metaphorical gay pride parade". This can pop up in stories with fantasy minorities. Claiming to be "openly heterosexual" or "openly white", arranging a parade for "Heterosexual Pride" or "Aryan Pride", is usually meant as an inversion/parody (either by the characters doing it, or by the author). Expect to hear people rant that these things should seriously exist, Completely Missing the Point of why pride parades happen in the first place.

Useful Notes / Asexuality
Not to be confused with being genderless, nor with biological asexuality (which refers to organisms that do not reproduce sexually), asexuality, in the most basic sense of the term, is defined as a sexual orientation where a person doesn't experience sexual attraction towards anyone.
It's similar to how a heterosexual person does not experience sexual attraction to their own gender, but applied to everyone.
But the concept of asexuality is not quite as black and white as it may seem at first. Asexuality is also an umbrella term for people that fall between asexuality and other orientations.
Romanticism
Romanticism and sexuality are two distinct—if parallel—spectrums. Some people use the split attraction model for themselves, with labels such as homoromantic asexual being used. However it should be noted that homo/hetero/bisexual/etc labels do not refer solely to sexual attraction; etymologically, the "sex" part referred to gender, which it was considered synonymous with. Labelling homosexuality as being inherently sexual comes loaded with baggage, so please don't.
Asexuals don't feel sexual attraction, but not all asexuals are aromantic. For a Romantic Asexual, romance isn't a problem, and many are comfortable with cuddling and kissing to express their feelings—they may be part of a Chastity Couple. Meanwhile, there are also aromantic sexual people, who may be part of a Friends with Benefits arrangement. Even an aromantic asexual can still have other types of relationships, like Platonic Life-Partners, that fill a similar role in their lives.
Sex
Some asexuals are repulsed by the idea of sex. Others don't mind it. Sex doesn't have to be disgusting, it's just not something that they feel has any place in their lives.
Some asexuals do have sex with their life partners, to make them happy—similar to going to a movie with your girlfriend, because you like making her happy, even though the movie doesn't really interest you. Others may choose to have sex because they want children. They may even enjoy it when they actually "get around to it", although it probably takes a while to "warm up". But it's just not something they find all that fulfilling. A popular analogy is to use food; "I'm not hungry, but I can still eat for pleasure."
Some asexuals do actually masturbate and enjoy doing so, as physiological arousal is considered to be distinct from sexual attraction, and these people can still be either neutral or repulsed by the idea of having sex with another person regardless. For them, the libido is an undirected physical urge, like sneezing, using the bathroom, or scratching an itch.
Spectrum
Many asexuals consider asexuality to be a spectrum between "fully" asexual (never feel sexual attraction) and "fully" allosexualnote . Various terms exist to define people who are not fully asexual but fall within the spectrum:
Gray asexuality is an umbrella term that describes the 'gray area' between sexuality and asexuality and covers a various range of identities under the asexual spectrum. In general, they do not feel sexual attraction except under certain circumstances and/or toward certain individuals. They could simply be attracted to an unusual characteristic (physical or behavioral), or only want to engage in a very specific type of sex.
Demisexuality is a subset of gray asexuality, and specifically refers to people who only experience sexual attraction after a close emotional bond has formed, although the definition of 'emotional bond' varies from person to person. It does not refer to people who are picky about their sexual partners, or people who are "saving themselves for the right person": these people may experience sexual attraction, but choose not to act on it, while demisexuals don't feel ANY sexual attraction at all without a preexisting bond.
Many people who describe themselves this way, or could be described this way, have had multiple partners in their lives (some are even polyamorous). Asexuality is not a 100% accurate description for them, but understanding the concept of asexuality is necessary in understanding the concepts of demisexuality and gray asexuality.
Alternative Title(s): Asexual

Useful Notes / LGBT Community
The LGBT Community is a mostly informal alliance encompassing those who to varying degrees are sexually oriented toward same sex individuals, as well as those whose gender identity does not fully match the sex of their birth. While there were likely minor movements and alliances since the sexual revolution of The '60s, a formal nationwide alliance did not manifest until 1985, when the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) was formed as a response to sensationalist AIDS-related news coverage. The notion of an alliance became quickly popular among gay and lesbian individuals, with BBSes of the like forming on a budding internet. The inclusion of transgender individuals under the alliance happened some time between 1985 and 1989, with the first GLAAD Media Awards including references to the term (the original 1996 GLAAD website also reflects this).
Outside of GLAAD, other similar alliances and communities sprung up in various ways. ACT UP, Queer Nation, and Lesbian Avengers all emerged with a focus on the AIDS epidemic. LGBT emerged as a common abbreviation and gained usage in various other organizations. On the budding graphical internet, LGBT communities on Prodigy, CompuServe, and AOL sprung up such as the Gay and Lesbian Community Forums (GLCF) on AOL which had the Transgender Community Forums (TCF) as a subcommunity. Whether the alliance expanded or simply became more specifically defined since 1989 is a common topic of debate, but GLAAD's core purpose of inclusiveness and proper media and political representation has remained to this day.
LGBT as a term is a broad umbrella abbreviation that stands for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender. On a greater scale, it implicitly covers a wider variation of individuals along the lines of sexual orientation and/or gender identity. While initially conceived as a political alliance, it has evolved to refer to the various communities who face similar societal and political challenges related to their orientation and/or identity. Terms like "LGBT community" and "LGBT youth" are common in political discourse.
LGBT often has additional letters appended to it, with the most common additional letter being Q. It's so common, in fact, that LGBTQ was mentioned by both United States major party presidential candidates during their respective 2016 national conventions.
Letters and characters commonly added include:
Queer: A general catch-all for those on the sexual orientation or gender identity spectra who do not completely identify with one of the primary letters.
Questioning: One who is currently exploring their sexual orientation (e.g. bi-curious) or gender identity. Sometimes this letter is implicitly merged with Queer.
Intersex: A broad term for individuals who can't be easily assigned a gender based on biological characteristics. These all come under variations in being biologically male or female, or both, or neither.
Transgender: Often shortened to just trans. One whose identified gender (known more formally as "gender identity") doesn't match the one they were assigned at birth (typically based on a doctor's perception of their genitalia). Some trans folks want to medically transition, while others don't; some folks have gender dysphoria, others don't. Older trans people might use the outdated term "Transsexual" (which still carries some meaning in a medical context, but is usually considered offensive).
Asexual: Those with no sexual want. There is, of course, different levels of experiencing sexual attraction and desire. Previously lumped in with bisexuals (since both groups have no sexual preference).
Pansexual: Similar to bisexual, with difference in specifications of gender attraction changing over time. When bisexual became more accepted as not only referring to male/female, pansexual shifted to become accepted as referring to having no acknowledgement of physical body in sexual/romantic partners.
+: The plus sign is used as a catch-all meant to represent all of the above letters and any others that are missing. This is typically appended as LGBT+ or LGBTQ+.
Disagreements as to what letters should be added are commonplace, with redundancy being a commonly cited concern. Comics poking fun at the rapid addition of letters and general readability are additional concerns, and disagreements have led to a Broken Base among those under the umbrella. The term "Queer" is often a source of contention as it is technically a reappropriated slur. Splitting T and I from LGB has also occasionally been brought up, as well as disagreements between G and L being commonplace in the 90s due to different lifestyles. Disagreements between GL and B sometimes emerge to this day for similar reasons. Regardless, LGBT has been the most stable version which has contributed to it getting its own article on the other wiki.
An alternate term in use is GSRD, which stands for Gender, Sexual and Relationship Diversity. Many perceive this term as being inherently more open and inclusive than the LGBT+ acronym is because it relies on broad categories of identification (gender, etc.) instead of specific identities (gay, etc.) and is virtually impossible to gatekeep.
There are also disagreements by various individuals as to whether or not the label should exist at all. Others feel that foregoing labels is an important step toward acceptance, much akin to the notion of post-racial where true cultural acceptance is when something "just is" and doesn't need to be mentioned. Still others may technically qualify for one of the listed groups but refuses to self-identify as LGBT. Reasons include self-denial, being closeted, those who choose not to reveal simply for reasons of general privacy but don't go out of their way to hide it, transgender individuals who just want to live as their identified gender ("stealth"), and/or any individual not wanting any perceived political baggage attached to the term. Another reason can be a feeling of not belonging or not being accepted within the LGBT+ community, especially if a person has been discriminated against by others who strongly identify as LGBT, and especially if these have happened at LGBT+-oriented events or other perceived "safe spaces".
Media depictions of LGBT individuals often equate a tendency to recite more letters with increased levels of political activism. Some depictions suggest the character may have a phobia of those who don't fall under the umbrella, or at least a sense of duty to protect one's own.
Related pages include:
Homosexual: Notes specific to gays and lesbians, including the societal and political challenges they face.
Bisexual: Notes specific to bisexuality, as well as delving slightly into pansexuality.
Transgender: Notes specific to gender identity, including the societal and political challenges faced by those along the gender identity spectrum.
Asexuality: Currently only lists a few variations of asexuality. Also has a trope page.
Intersex: Keep in mind that this is a trope page for Intersex, NOT a Useful Notes. While it has media depictions of the subject, it is not encyclopedic.
Alternative Title(s): LGBT

Useful Notes / Sapphism
Sapphism (adj. sapphic) is a retool term that refers to women who have romantic and/or sexual attraction to other women. What separates sapphism from lesbianism is inclusivity. Specifically, sapphic is an adjective that includes not only lesbians, but bisexual, pansexual, and homo/bi/pan-romantic asexual women, as well some non-binary transgender individuals.
The term comes from famous Greek poet Sappho who kept a cadre of women she admired and loved with her on the island of Lesbos. Using the term sapphic in communication is useful to reduce presumptive errors about another person, both in sexual orientation and gender identity.
Usage of the term has gained popularity in progressive and LGBTQ spaces, especially as a less gender-restricted term. Many transgender people prefer to use the terminology to describe themselves if they identify as wholly or partially female and/or non-binary. In this way, they can escape a lot of the excessively-gendered tropes attached to the term, such as Butch Lesbian and Lipstick Lesbian.
In general, the term is also used to avoid attachment to scores of previous organizations and movements that have flavored and defined what it truly means to be "lesbian" or a woman who likes women.
Alternative Title(s): Sapphic

Useful Notes / Transgender
"I'm a guy, like 100 percent dude. But I was born in a girl's body."
— Adam Torres, Degrassi
Since gendernote  and sexnote  are frequently associated or conflated in most societies, including Western ones, babies with penises are designated baby boys and babies with vaginas are designated baby girls. Nature is more complicated than that, of course. But "transgender" is an umbrella term that can be used to refer to all people whose genders don't match the sex they were designated based on visual factors. This includes (the most commonly depicted) "trans women", women who are designated male at birth; "trans men", men who are designated female at birth; and nonbinary people who don't identify as men or women (but can identify as a combination of men, women, and other genders and/or outside of man and woman altogether), and even agender/neutrois people who don't identify as any established gender identity. There are also bigender people, who identify as two genders at once and are usually included in the "nonbinary" or "genderqueer" category above.
Some activists stretch the definition to include everyone who doesn't conform to gender expectations, whether expectations about anatomy or behavior — this broader definition would include cross-dressers and non-traditional men or women who otherwise still agree with whatever sex they got asigned at birth. There's also academic and activist debate over whether some non-Western societies' "third genders" or "third sexes" — categories which are traditional but also not considered "male" or "female" — should be counted under "transgender", or more likely "non-binary"... but this isn't an Anthropology of Gender course.
Origins
Being transgender is frequently associated with a symptom known as gender dysphoria. It manifests differently between individuals, but generally speaking, it involves a sense of dissatisfaction with one's physical body as the result of their biological sex (hence "dysphoria"), and a wish to have a body of a different gender. Some symptoms that can occur but are, once again, not universal, include the feeling of "being in the wrong body", evaluating one's body by the standards of the other side's (even subconsciously), cross-gender dreams, transformation fantasies, and so on.
Some dysphoria is less physical, where their body parts themselves may not cause them great discomfort they find that the mere idea of being perceived as the wrong gender because of those body parts does. As stated above, manifestation of dysphoria depends on the individual.
Opinions are divided on whether gender dysphoria is inborn or a result of personality development, but it is often stated by medical experts to relate to one's brain structure not matching the expectation (i.e. a biologically male person developed a female brain structure or vice-versa). To the big picture, it is largely irrelevant. It can manifest at different ages, although subconscious manifestations of dysphoria can at times be traced to the time before conscious self-discovery. For a somewhat dated (it was made in The '80s) but still fascinating look at some of the brain and body chemistry behind gender, the BBC documentary The Fight To Be Male is an excellent place to start.
Consider the typical involuntary Gender Bender plot (such as in Ranma ½, or with Roy in The Order of the Stick): the victim often outright hates or is ashamed by their new body, experiencing discomfort with it and seeking ways to remove the "curse". This is how many cisgender peoplenote  might react, while many transgender people would consider the "curse" a blessing. In fact, transition (see below) exists exactly because there's no convenient way in real life to quickly change a human's physical sex. Yet, anyway. If there was one, transition would largely be limited to social adaptation to the new gender role.
Self-discovery
Accepting one's own gender identity, or even acknowledging its existence, might take a while, going through stages of denial. This period seems to receive the least coverage in mainstream fiction, which is primarily concerned instead with either the start or the end (or near-end) of the path. An interesting phenomenon can take place that's essentially the reverse of gender dysphoria, which one may call "gender euphoria". It seems under-represented in fiction, if represented at all: Man, I Feel Like a Woman could be considered The Theme Park Version, but gender euphoria doesn't require any physical changes to actually occur.
Transition
Transition, the transgender "journey", is a twofold process, and in fact not universal — some choose not to undergo it at all. One side of it is socialization: learning and adopting the social patterns of the target gender, which by itself becomes progressively easier in the modern society as the gender roles themselves become blurred — however, with it come numerous issues of acceptance versus discrimination, as well as legal issues, of both of which a lot has been written in detail.
The other side is physical change — becoming closer in appearance and function to the target gender — which can be motivated not just by desire of social acceptance, but also by psychological issues of self-esteem, and yes, the "wrong body" feeling. Much is written in details about physical transition as well, involving voice training/alteration, sex-specific steps (e.g. hair or breast removal), the proverbial hormone therapy, and the even more proverbial "op" — that is, genital surgery.
Two myths need to be debunked there. First, hormones aren't Applied Phlebotinum — they can only do so much. While they do cause things like breast growth and thinning of body hair for trans women, or on the contrary, growth of body hair for trans men, as well as some voice changes *  and redistribution of body fat — they don't magically alter the skeleton to adjust body shape, nor do they remove facial hair, which has to be done separately. Some skeletal adjustments do happen — the skeleton is a living part of the body, after all, and there is increasing evidence that it continues to develop and change through adult life, but more slowly and on a much more subtle level — but they take years and may never have more than a slight visual effect.
Finally: while the operation may be required for a legal identity change (depending on the geographical area), it's otherwise only one of the transition options available which a person may or may not need, and when the person does choose to undergo it, it always comes last, after a period of living under the new identity. Also, keep in mind that there is no one specific procedure. Terms like pre-op and post-op typically refer to genital reconstructive surgery (GRS or SRS), but there are a variety of surgical procedures that trans people may pursue- for example, many trans men find that having their breasts removed is a more important step than getting work done below the belt. Easy Sex Change only exists in TV Land.
Transsexual vs. Transgender
Often these two terms get conflated and confused but with good reason. A common perception is that transsexual people are those who have surgery and transgender people do not. While the former is mostly accurate the latter is not always so. There are people who view the term transsexual as too stigmatizing and argue that it contributes to the conflation between gender and biological sexual organs and avoid it, even if they choose to have surgery. The majority of trans people identify under "transgender", which is a more liberating term for both binary trans people and nonbinary people, who may not seek surgery in the first place, as well as averting the stigmatized term of "transsexual".
However, older transgender people may still use this term. The origins of changing the term was that cisgender heterosexuals used the term with the suffix "-sexual" against transgender people, claiming it was a sexual fetish, and that trans people were not legitimate or deserving of either respect or (transition related) medical care. The term transgender clarifies that it is not orientation (unlike, say, bisexual, which is an orientation) and does not lend itself to corruption of the term for the purpose of excusing bigotry. All in all, what one uses for themselves is their choice and no-one else's, but cisgender people would do well to use "transgender," and it is also the proper term in any sort of public/medical/academic capacity.
Sexuality
Sexual orientation can be difficult to describe in a binary, ciscentric framework. Traditional labels, like "heterosexual," "homosexual" and "bisexual", are based on the gender binary, and break down when the very framework of gender is in question, although many transgender people use them for themselves nonetheless. Without getting too philosophical, however, they are like everyone in this respect — they may have a sexual preference for males, females, both or neither (or for wider or narrower sections of the gender spectrum), regardless of the direction of their identity. There are proposed terms for sexual orientation that would help resolve the ambiguities, but they are yet to meet universal recognition.
It is worth noting, however, that for some trans people, their sexual preferences change as they go through transition. Sometimes this is the result of exploring the nature of gender and sexuality; sometimes this is due to resolving discomfort with one's own sexuality; sometimes this is just one of the strange things that hormones will do. And sometimes, none of this happens, and they maintain the same sexual identity no matter what alteration might occur to their body.
Stealth or not
Some transgender people prefer being "stealth," in that they seek to fully adopt and fit into the cultural role of their gender ("passing") with no traces of having had the body or life experiences of someone who had to live as the other gender. Others, either out of necessity *  or simple preference for androgyny, choose a more androgynous presentation.
Same goes for behavior in general: some want to blend in, making a point to act more aggressive/more gentle/etc, taking up hobbies and interests traditional to their gender and shunning those that are not, changing the people they spend time with or their line of work, etcetera, while others don't change their attitudes or interests or friends or preferred work. Sometimes this is because they had a relative balance of interests to begin with; for example, a trans man who leaned toward being tomboyish while living as a woman may already have interests and friends and preferred work that tend toward masculine, for example, so there's no need to change much. Other times because people don't wish to be a part of the predominant cultures/subcultures for their gender anyway, for example, the same as cisgender men who don't like "dudebro" culture or cisgender women who aren't interested in "femininity" as it's sold and packaged in general.
None of this is relevant to whether they are actually "trans enough" or not, despite what some may say. The five foot one trans man who keeps his "pink collar" job/doesn't bulk up/is asexual/doesn't like sports/still has to use the ladies room in some situations/etc is just as much of a man as the six foot tall one who retrained to a more traditionally "male" job/got into bodybuilding/developed a reputation as a heterosexual ladies' man/is a huge sports fan/who would never have to fear for his safety in a restroom/etc. The broad-shouldered and deep-voiced trans woman who works in occupations related to her past work in the military/is a lesbian/doesn't have much of an interest in makeup and fashion/is barred by law from using the ladies room is just as much of a woman as the slight and thin one who became a teacher or nurse or housewife/who got married to a very masculine cisgender man/always has absolutely perfect fashion and makeup/lives in a place where no one or the law would question her right to use the ladies' room.
The important takeaway here is that unless you are a close friend (and even then be very, very, very careful) do not offer "helpful advice" on passing unless it is asked of you. Said advice may be unwanted at best, as well as something already known but ignored or impossible, even if it isn't physically impossible (e.g. changing a stable "pink collar" job like waitressing/waitering or a secretary job for an unstable "man's job" like construction worker or mechanic is a bad idea in a bad economy), and at worst — especially if you are not yourself transgender — a deep and horrific personal insult. Finally, some of the more androgynous transgender persons see fixation with passing as Compensating for Something and therefore just another form of closeting (e.g. "what's the point of coming out of the closet if you have to immediately closet your sexual orientation or your interests or your looks to fit in with gender stereotypes?").
Other common misconceptions and myths:
"Transgender people are dangerous/ freakish Attention Whores /sexual perverts!" This one is what happens when Hollywood misinformation, confirmation bias, and selection bias meet plain old bigotry, homophobia, and transphobia.
Transgender people are not exemplified by what you may have seen on Jerry Springer or in the more freakish media portrayals, and are no more inclined toward violent or "dangerous" behavior than the common cisgender population. In the case of trans women, the hormones they are on are actually generally less conducive to violence or sexual predation. In the case of trans men, the dosage of testosterone most are on is not enough to induce "roid rage" or violent mood swings and most have lived long enough socialized as closeted trans men (which is very similar to female socialization) to not seek violence as the first and only solution to a bad day or a mood swing. Most transgender people are more likely to be the victims of violence or sexual assault than the perpetrators of it, or to be capable of violence (martial arts or street fighting skill, carrying a knife or firearm) but only willing to use it in self-defense to stop someone from raping or killing them or someone else.
Transgender people are no more "freakish" or the Attention Whore on average than cisgender people. Again, while there are some exceptions, these do not speak for all transgender people, and there are a lot of transgender people who do focus on being "normal" and being stealth and not attracting notice of any sort. That said, even the "freakish" people aren't necessarily seeking attention or wishing to start drama with their existence — it is thoroughly possible to be someone who is seen as "freakish" or "weird" by mainstream society and yet be entirely harmless and non-attention seeking. It is also thoroughly possible to be "different" or "unusual" and only be so to be oneself — not in any attempt to draw attention for it. Finally, even the Attention Whore is generally harmless, if annoying — not deserving of social ostracism and punishment to "make them normal" or "make them go away and shut up" — to bully even a confirmed Attention Whore is also pointless, because a true Attention Whore could be incredibly insecure, and looking for validation - or does not want to be normal. And maybe the person isn't actually an Attention Whore but is just living their own life in a different way because that is what they are comfortable with, in which case bullying and ostracising them goes beyond pointless into cruel and discriminatory.
Transgender people have the same range of sexuality and sexual behavior as cisgender people. While sex work is more common among the community (mostly due to the same economic reason that Single Mom Stripper exists as a trope — when you can't get work or work with reasonable pay anywhere else, sex work is one of the few options left and trans people tend to have roughly three times the unemployment rate of cis people, or higher among trans minorities), not every transgender person is a sex worker. Also, while some may be kinky (from everywhere from the lighter end of BDSM to hardcore highly risky practices), others may not be or may only be in specific settings. Nor do transgender people develop a desire for sex with anything and everything — in fact, the rate of pedophilia and bestiality is lower among the community than among cisgender heterosexual males.
As a subnote to sexuality and sexual behavior, how a trans woman may feel about wearable breasts or a trans man about a wearable penis, for example, may range from anything from "needed prosthesis" to "fetish" to "toy" and anything in between. If you are curious and aren't having sex with or considering having sex with the person, mind your own business. If you're curious and are having or considering sex, ask before assuming a given set of feelings and especially before asking that the person take the object off. In the case of trans men specifically, many prefer wearable "equipment" because phalloplasty is still primitive and risky as compared to other genitourinary surgeries (and even if desired, is far harder to get covered under much insurance than even top surgery), and/or for reasons of versatility.
"Transgender people are unstable!" This is an example of what happens when Self-Fulfilling Prophecy and circular reasoning feed into bigotry. Most if not all of the reasons why transgender people can be objectively unstable - you know just like everyone else (lack of financial wealth and liquidity, lack of stable dwellings, not being married or partnered or having strong family ties, anxiety ranging from nervousness to paranoia of straight/cisgender strangers who act in certain ways) - are directly due to the way trans people are or recently were treated, especially poor trans people, and the way society is often set up to encourage violence and mockery toward the transgender or androgynous and discourage them, in turn, from participation in society except among themselves, unless they have money or they are far more beautiful/handsome than even the average cisgender person is.
This can even sometimes result in a Vicious Cycle of instability based in the reality that when people are treated badly and disrespected, they tend to expect more of the same from those doing it — and the solution isn't to blame them as "unstable" but to encourage others to cut some slack for this, to understand that someone may have been legitimately hurt and may not be incredibly sociable/interested in family or may have unusually strong boundaries due to that, for example. Or to understand that someone might have bad credit/a bad rental history and still be a good tenant or a good worker who just needs someone to give them a chance to prove themselves. The "mental instability of trans people," aside from trans people who actually do have severe mental illnesses unconnected to their status, is pretty much solely the result of their being treated and marginalized as if they are creepy/weird/dangerous/fragile.
Similarly, a strong correlation has been found between being Trans and on the Autism Spectrum, and it's debated as to whether some of the same genetic or fetal developmental factors are involved. For those who are on the spectrum, it provides additional difficulties with social integration and achieving a "normal" life, and the combination can be disabling, especially in societies where "weird" people are heavily discriminated against. It is unknown if this overlap is biological, or perhaps due to some autistic people not understanding (or caring to understand) social gender constructs.
Connected to the above, "transgender people are not real, they are just confused in the head." Dispelling this myth is part of why the DSM is re-categorizing gender identity disorder as a physical problem of the body similar to intersex. In intersex conditions, the intersex person simply had the hormonal "luck of the draw" to develop physical characteristics of both sexes, whereas the transgender person did not, so their condition is not "visible" even though it is a physical condition of hormones and fetal development, as opposed to a psychological problem of "this person is messed up in the head."
Some anecdotal evidence tends to point to the "invisible physical condition" theory as well: for example, many trans men report having deeper voices, PCOS symptoms, male pattern hair loss, difficult/painful menstruation, mood swings, or severe fatigue even before transitioning at all and/or when having to be off outside testosterone — which hints at the "natural" state involving a higher amount of testosterone or a different response to it. Or as an alternate theory, a lower amount when the body's balance would be better with the same amount cisgender males naturally have and is instead functioning on a too-high for the individual level of estrogen and progesterone — putting the trans man not on outside testosterone in a similar place biologically as a cisgender male whose body didn't produce the proper level of the hormone.
There is a growing suspicion that intersex conditions are actually under-diagnosed, and that a routine check ought to be made, instead of only checking when the external genitalia is ambiguous.
An alternate mistake is assuming that someone is not/cannot be disabled by anything related to gender identity disorder if it is not in and of itself a mental disorder, with a "pull yourself up by the bootstraps" or "man up" type attitude. The reactions of others toward it (in societies that remain transphobic at large) can make it a disabling condition (as in, if no one has hired you because of it, you can't get job experience, hence you can't get hired for "no experience"), and associated issues such as adjustment to hormones (fatigue often being a side effect of the dose adjustment phase before optimal levels are reached), menstrual issues in pre-menopausal trans men who can't do hormones or surgery, development of anxiety or depression, development of PTSD and/or social anxiety post an assault or prolonged abuse/bullying, and surgery preparation and post-op recovery are all things that can leave someone unable to work or to do some forms of work, and all are legitimate issues that originate as a result of social stigma, of physical problems the disorder itself presents, or of recovering from treatment.
It has now been shown that transgender people possess brain structures similar to their cis counterparts, proving further they are not just mentally ill. A newer study (whose link has sadly expired) confirms the above's results.
See Also
For more information on transgender people and their experience, see the trans wiki.
For help writing a transgender character, see A Single Unified LGBT Character Thread in the forums.
Alternative Title(s): Transsexual

Useful Notes / Westermarck Effect
The Westermarck Effect is a hypothesized psychological response of people who are raised together in a family unit from a very early age, which desensitizes them to sexual attraction towards said person.
In short, the Westermarck Effect holds that you're less likely to be attracted to someone of your preferred gender if you both grew up together. The Westermarck Effect is commonly brought up in the midst of shipping discussions where siblings and childhood friends are involved. Many close tribal and small village communities marry outside of the tribe or village, and many childhood friends end up unlucky because of this. This would also explain why brother-sister incest was possible among Egyptian royals (where the girls were raised separately from the boys and didn't even meet until after puberty), while some European royal families such as the Valois faced extinction because the king and queen couldn't bear to touch each other—not because they were that closely related, but because they'd been brought up together since early childhood and thought of each other as siblings.
However, it is important to remember that the Westermarck Effect is a hypothesis, and a contested one at that—not a proven phenomena.
The most famous case supporting the Westermarck effect was the Israeli collective farms (kibbutzim), in which children were raised communally in peer groups based on age rather than biological relation. One study showed that out of 3,000 marriages that occurred within the kibbutz system, only 14 were between children from the same peer group. These 14 were seen as the exception that proved the rule, since none of them had been reared together during the first 6 years of life.
A later study by Eran Shor and Dalit Simchai noted that while there were few marriages between kibbutz children from the same peer group, they found that a significant number felt attracted to their co-rearer peers. Basically, kibbutz children rarely married each other, but they frequently had crushes on each other. Shor and Simchai concluded that the kibbutz system provides weak evidence for the existence of the Westermarck effect, and that social taboos and norms are necessary factors to consider. Indeed, people are taught by religious, legal, and medical authorities that sexual relations with one's sibling are sinful, criminal, or a form of mental illness. Even if attraction is felt, it will probably be repressed, especially if the one experiencing it thinks it is one-sided.
For further reading, see The Other Wiki's article on this here.

Useful Notes / COVID-19 Pandemic
An outbreak of a brand new disease that was first identified in December 2019—named by the World Health Organization as "coronavirus disease 2019" or "COVID-19" for short (often referred to as a "coronavirus outbreak"note  due to it first being publicized before the disease's identification as a new strain of SARS, named "severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2" or "SARS-CoV-2")—was recognized as a pandemic by the WHO on March 11, 2020. The disease's outbreak and its subsequent progress and effects on the world were and are, without a question, the defining event of 2020 and may well end up defining the decade that is to follow.
Compare: The Black Death, The Spanish Flu.
The Basics
First reported in a fish market in Wuhan, China, it has to date infected over 50.1 million people, with over 1.2 million deaths. The outbreak was said to be caused by yewei (a form of exotic game meat similar to bushmeat) being sold at a local fish and animal market, due to inadequate sanitation standards (similar to the poor livestock conditions and general sanitary standards that caused the 1993 E. coli outbreak in The United States; paralleling that outbreak, the Chinese government has enacted stricter regulations on yewei in response). The disease has spread far and wide since it was first noticed and swept every continent in the world except for Antarctica (which apart from a small handful of research outposts is uninhabited by humans). Major centers of outbreak outside China include the United States, Europe (especially Russia; the United Kingdom; Spain; France; Sweden; Italy, which is a popular destination for Chinese tourists); Iran; India; and Brazil. The pandemic led to increased public concerns about personal health and food hygiene, with social distancing being enforced. Business, education, and non-essential trade in many countries were suspended; it was estimated that more than 1.7 billion students globally were affected by school suspension, as classes shifted online to varying degrees of success. The aviation and tourism industries were hit especially hard, as many countries enacted travel bans and lockdowns. By the end of March 2020 it had spread to the rest of the economy, with the U.S. losing an unprecedented 10 million jobs in the last two weeks of March.note  By April 16th, the US had lost over 22 million jobs in just a month. For comparison, it took 3 years for The Great Depression to lose 25 million jobs.note  By the end of May 2020, the job losses were exceeding 40 million. Many economists believe that the global economy has spiraled into a deep recession that has been called the "Great Lockdown" and the "Great Shutdown", with the economic loss having already become far greater than the Time of Shedding and Cold Rocks of the late 2000s. The United States ended the first half of 2020 with the most infections and deaths in the world, with over 10 million people infected and over 241,000 deathsnote  (with the most infections and deaths coming from the Northeast from March to May 2020; and later in the southern States and California during the summer) as of November 2020.note 
North American Response and Troubles
One reason for the disastrous U.S. situation is that lockdown measures caused widespread protests and unrest in the United States, with even President Donald Trump's administration demanding various state governors to end the lockdown measures and stay-at-home orders and "reopen the economy". Wearing a surgical mask to both prevent the spread of the virus and protect oneself from it became a particular flashpoint issue, in part due to Trump's vocal distaste for it; in May a security guard was actually murdered for insisting a customer wear a mask. Many "essential" workers who are not subject to stay-at-home measures (medical workers, grocery store clerks, etc.) argue they are not being properly protected and/or compensated for their continued work as is, and are only put more at risk by relaxations of safety measures — further highlighting the continued class and racial disparities at work in the U.S. and the failures of the government to provide for the common good in a crisis.
Due in part to pressure from both Washington and their residents, many states started easing up on stay-at-home orders by or on Memorial Day weekend only to see people often deliberately not following the social distancing/mask-wearing restrictions that remained, resulting in a dramatic uptick of cases and new shortages of protective equipment for workers at hospitals. Matters only became tenser as waves of Black Lives Matter/anti-Police Brutality protests around the country and the world launched that summer; even with many protesters wearing masks and attempting to distance themselves from each other note  there were fears of their being "superspreader" events alongside events related to the "reopen the economy" movement — e.g. Walt Disney World reopening in July even as infections in Florida were reaching record levels; K-12 schools and colleges being pushed to reopen the following month after attempts at online "distance learning" largely failed (especially for poor families); and even/especially Trump's 2020 Presidential campaign rallies, which often discouraged/ignored masks and social distancing.
Tellingly, a second wavenote  of COVID-19 emerged that summer — directly contrasting predictions that the virus would be less prevalent as a result of the hotter weather — affecting young adults more heavily than before and leading to the pandemic again becoming the top point of focus in the news cycle and public discussion, eclipsing the protests. Many analysts pin the second wave more on the mass reopenings, particularly in the southern states and California where most of the infections and deaths occurred, as a result of people participating in them being much less likely than the protesters to adhere to protective practices. The pandemic shouldered some of the blame for the protests starting in the first place, since there was so little to distract people from news about Police Brutality (not to mention that the anti-lockdown protests of the spring had been far less criticized), and proved a major complication for the 2020 Presidential election due to many voters struggling to vote early or by mail rather than risk long waits and/or infection at in-person voting sites, problems already apparent during primary season. In one of the most dramatic - and to many, so predictable that the only twist is that it didn't happen sooner - twists in an already-dramatic election, Trump and many of his associates caught the virus in late September. Trump's case was severe enough he had to be hospitalized at Walter Reed Medical Center for a few days. Even after this, he continued to downplay the severity of the pandemic, arguing people could not let it "dominate" their lives and even claiming he was immune to it as he returned to campaigning. What was generally regarded as a third wave began in the back half of October, now with virtually the entire country seeing huge upticks in cases and hospitalizations as colder weather set in (discouraging outdoor gatherings, dining, etc.), many people continued to flout social distancing and mask rules, and the Trump administration shifted its focus to managing the pandemic rather than ending it, putting its emphasis on the development of vaccines and treatments rather than reinforcing rules, reintroducing lockdowns, and/or providing economic support to hurting families and business owners. Trump himself would end up losing the 2020 election to Democratic nominee Joe Biden in part because of public frustration and disapproval with his handling of the pandemic.
North of America, Canada has had much better success in containing the virus to an extent, due in part to bipartisan cooperation from various politicians on all levels of government that set aside differences to flatten the curve. Notably, Ontario Premier Doug Ford (a conservative) and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau (a liberal), who have butted heads in the past, worked famously together to handle the pandemic, and the curve has been, as of August of 2020, stabilized to a cautiously optimistic level, although in October they were dealing with a second wave of infections the authorities feared. Federally, the government was forced to institute unprecedented social programs for those who were now unemployed by the pandemic, measures that were seen by many Canadians as being a critical lifeline. The pandemic also shined a light onto the failures of the systems as they were, and forced the government to resolve them into a "21st century system." Some of these social programs included the Canada Emergency Response Benefit (CERB) note , a reduction of requirements for Employment Insurance benefits, and benefits for sickness, maternity, and saving graces for gig economy and self-employed people. As a result of these and a careful strategy to dealing with the pandemic, Canada has been reported to be recovering better economically and otherwise than its southern neighbour.
On a related note, the pandemic has also caused a slight souring of relations between some sections of people within the United States and Canada - the shared border between the two countries was closed for all but essential travel, with all travelers into Canada (citizen or not) required by law to quarantine for two weeks upon arrival. While this has mostly been seen as a reasonable measure to slow the spread, especially given the abysmally bad infection rate south of the shared border, some particularly selfish Americans have taken advantage of the highway route between Washington state and Alaska, which passes through Canada note , to skirt the rules. Reports of harassment of people with American plates in Canada (many of whom are legal residents of the country) have been common since the border was closed, and opinions on Americans have dipped slightly in Canada as a result of these few.
The pandemic has also caused supply shortages across the globe from hand sanitizers, food, toilet paper, hand soaps, surgical masks, protective gear, and even hair dye (primarily due to mass panic buying), thus forcing grocery stores to ration produce and goods. The food shortages are made even worse when farmers are forced to destroy their own crops and produce despite the significantly increased demand for food from grocery stores and food banks.note  There was also a surge in gun sales in the United States, and a run on the market in precious metals such as silver and gold due to the fear of potential societal collapse due to the coronavirus outbreak and uncertainty over how the presidential victory of Joe Biden will pan out (from Trump adamantly contesting the results, fears of violence breaking out from his most ardent supporters, and questions over how Biden's economic recovery plan will work out).
European Response and Troubles
Europe has seen the fastest spread after China, with Northern Italy as its epicenter. There are pressing concerns about how the pandemic will reshape the economy of the European Union. The struggling economies in Southern Europe have made a proper answer to the outbreak trickier note , have requested the countries of Northern Europe to adopt a policy of debt sharing, the so-called "coronabonds" that would ease the struggle. The supporters of this policy are the Latin countries note  along with Greece, Ireland and Slovenia, with Northern European countries note  showing their reluctance at the prospect. This hot debate has driven Europe into economic and cultural clashes over how the Union should be run: Southern countries are notoriously more prone to let the state intervene in financial matters, while Northern countries are more prone to the opposite, and these tendencies are shown in their response to the outbreak (or lack of, in some cases). As of August 2020, cases in Europe had widely dropped and the EU reached an agreement on shared economic recovery mechanisms, giving hope that the crisis might be slowly coming to an end, but the lack of actual concerted health policy was still presenting challenges as some countries such as France and Spain showed signs of a coming second wave. Said second wave hit by the end of that month, with multiple countries in the region seeing record case counts and several reimposing lockdowns in the fall/autumn.
In Italy, another hard-hit area of the pandemic with the sixth highest death toll after the US, Brazil, India, Mexico, and the UK, there has been growing discontent among some Italians with the European Union due to the slow response to the pandemic, Italy's already difficult economic turmoil from the previous decade and an erroneous (and often deliberately manufactured) but widespread perception that other countries such as Cuba, Russia, and China were offering greater or faster assistance than fellow EU members. A few fringe right-wing Italian mayors and politicians (such as Italian vice-president of Chamber of Deputies Fabio Rampelli) took down European Union flags and replaced them with Italian flags, and some Italians took to social media protesting the European Union by burning European Union flags. Northern Italy and its key economic region, Lombardy, have the highest mortality rate in Europe and have experienced firsthand the lockdown that is being adopted in other European countries. The lockdown has unfortunately slowed their production. In Southern Italy the virus is seeing far less casualties, but the lockdown has frozen its already rocky economy, with unemployment and poverty raising concerns about how local mafias will use the lockdown to tie impoverished families to its gears if/when the state fails to take proper initiative.
Among Northern European countries, Sweden emerged as a surprise hotspot despite having one of the best healthcare systems in the world. Unlike the other Nordic countries, Sweden opted for a partial lockdown (i.e. restricting large gatherings but not closing gyms and restaurants) with its government arguing that a total lockdown would harm the economy and that personal responsibility of its citizens would be more effective in limiting the disease. Unfortunately this approach backfired with Sweden having a fatality rate of 58.6 deaths per 100,000 people as of October 2020; by comparison, that is approximately 10 times higher than that of neighboring Norway, which went into a total lockdown. As for averting a recession, the Swedish economy ended up contracting anyway and many analysts predict that its economic recovery will be bumpier than that of Norway's. To make matters worse, when the Nordic countries began reopening their borders for travel, they excluded Swedish residents due to the country's high number of cases with Denmark going so far as deploying physical barriers and border guards. Similarly damming are recent revelations that the Swedish government discouraged wearing life-saving masks even among health care providers in an attempt to downplay the pandemic, which only placed more people in harm's way. Sweden's second wave arrived a bit later than that of the rest of Europe, owing to expanded testing and contact tracing, and the death rate had slowed to a trickle; nonetheless, the country became a cautionary tale for any nation that doesn't pursue complete lockdowns or proper safety precautions.note 
As time went on, the UK became one of the hardest-hit of all European countries, with a confused governmental response at first counting on herd immunity before hastily switching to the same lockdown measures as elsewhere when shown projections of the catastrophic consequences would ensue from their original strategy. This was further worsened by the UK's complicated and increasingly hostile break from the EU, which has isolated it from shared European recovery efforts, dividing the nation and further damaging its economy at the worst possible moment. The pandemic was especially disastrous for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson as the pandemic not only derailed the post-Brexit talks but Johnson became infected in the process.
The Severity
There are several key reasons for the pandemic's severity, but before listing them, remember that humanity has known about this virus for less than a year, and while research continues at a frantic pace, no facts about its properties should be considered iron-clad; they are mostly based on the preliminary results currently available and the behavior of similar coronaviruses.
The disease is spread via airborne distribution through respiratory droplets. All an infected person needs to do to release the virus — and all a healthy person needs to do to catch it — is breathe.
While it needs a live host, it can survive for three hours in the air in the aforementioned droplets which can reach as far as six feet away from the infected person, and it can survive for two to three days on a surface, and people who touch those surfaces can be infected if they touch their face or eyes. (Though infection via this route appears to be much less prevalent than direct respiratory contact.) It also jumps between species with relative ease, with several identified cases of pets testing positive after their owners.
There is a very slow incubation period; it takes up to two weeks for the virus to become symptomatic, and there's research to suggest that some never develop symptoms at all despite being infected by the virus.
An infected person is already contagious during this incubation period, resulting in asymptomatic carriers Definition  who can spread the disease and infect others without knowing they have it in the first place, making it harder to contain. There's even evidence that people can be contagious for some time after apparent recovery, though much less so than in earlier stages of the disease. (Compare this to SARS, which is at its most contagious when a person is already flat-on-their-back sick and can be isolated from the rest of the population easily.)
Although the mortality rate in symptomatic cases is around 2%, which may not seem so bad, the disease's rapid spread and ease of transmission means that each day the hundreds of thousands of new infections conversely result in thousands of deaths.
Although it is commonly believed that only sickly, elderly, or immune system compromised people are at risk of dying from the disease, reality is that the factors that affect the outcome of it are not fully understood yet. There are cases of very old people recovering from it and of healthy and fit people in their 20's or 30's that have died or ended up with life-long life problems.
Whether or not an infected person acquires antibody immunity against further infection, and if so for how long, has been a hotly debated topic. (Remember, again, even the earliest victims have only had the disease for a few months.) As of September 2020, COVID-19 reinfections have been confirmed in Belgium, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, and the US state of Nevada. A person who gets infected again, due to the lasting and long-term effects of the disease, is weaker to fight it again. And even if they recover from the disease completely, they can still have long-term signs and symptoms from which they may never recover due to permanent damage to many vital organs (i.e. lungs, heart, kidney, brain, etc.). A study by the Big Ten Conferencenote  showed that 1/3 of the athletes in the conference who contracted COVID-19 in summer practices developed potentially career-ending heart problems.
Relatedly, much of the evidence currently available suggests that the main problem with the virus is that it is a blood infection as much as it is a "lung" infection; thickened or unusual blood is a very common report for severe COVID patients, and while the lungs are often heavily affected by this (being one of the most blood-rich organs in the body, natch) this is what causes the virus to play havoc on virtually every organ in the body, since the virus' effect on one's blood has knock-on effects in every organ or organic system the victim possesses.
In particular point number 4 has been cited as the main reason for the outbreak's severity; anyone you meet while going about your life can potentially infect everyone around them despite appearing healthy, and you are no exception! — you might be infected as you read this without knowing it, but you cannot know for certain outside of being tested. Because of this, the need for widespread testing is much greater than for other diseases, but many governments either lack the resources to conduct the needed tests or waited until the person has developed symptoms already to proceed with the test, and by then the patient may have already infected an unknown number of people. Vaccine candidates and antivirals are being tested, but there are no official cures or vaccines for the disease and the threat of a treatment-resistant mutation constantly lingers overhead (owing to the lack of available scientific literature on how the virus mutates), leaving economically destructive social distancing as the only sure-fire form of prevention available.
Okay, But What About TV and Tropes?
The pandemic and all the social distancing involved have had a massive impact on the entertainment industry, with theaters closing, major events being cancelled, and many creative works that were set for release in 2020 seeing their release dates changed multiple times as people take shelter in their homes, while the production of others was halted. Some films that hadn't been released to theaters yet are seeing unprecedented early digital releases or been put on direct-to-streaming ((see this page and scroll down for more information). Some movies (such as those from Universal) are even arriving to digital platforms simultaneously with their theatrical releases, which might lead to massive changes in the film industry. By contrast, North American Comic Books is a medium facing a much tougher time, with Diamond Comic Distribution which rules a practical monopoly on the distribution of comics to retailers suddenly going on a weeks-long shutdown where no new comics would be shipped, pointing to a difficult future for the comic medium, further complicated by the fact that the digital market for traditional comics is still not as widespread as other forms of entertainment such as Film and TV, and most consumers still prefer the physical format (specially due to the inherent value of the comic itself in a widespread resale and collectible market).
Live theater and music will likely take years to recover, and likely not fully, in the United States and United Kingdom. Cirque du Soleil declared it was filing for bankruptcy in July due to all but one of their productions (ironically a Chinese resident show) being unable to reopen so long as social distancing/large gathering orders are in place and laid off thousands of performers, Broadway theaters in New York City will not reopen until mid-2021 at the earliest, and many smaller companies and venues face outright ruin. It came to the point that the U.K. government launched a campaign encouraging such artists to reconsider their career choices and retrain for "useful" jobs in October 2020, to much public disgust. It also had a devastating effect on the comic/pop culture convention market, with signature events like San Diego Comic-Con and DragonCon declaring their first cancellations in years if not ever, though they staged online-based alternative events as substitutes.
While the tourism and hospitality have taken a massive blow owing to travel restrictions, the cruising industry became one of the biggest casualties of the pandemic. During the beginning of pandemic, the Diamond Princess cruise ship became a major outbreak site owing to its proximity to Wuhan, the cramped conditions, and lack of sanitary regulations, which lead to 20% of all people on board becoming infected. The news of the outbreak dampened enthusiasm for cruising and lead to stock prices of cruise lines to tank by 70% in just two months. Many cruise lines were barred from bailouts by the US government as they are registered in foreign countries to avoid higher taxes and regulations. Even if the pandemic ends, many industry analysts doubt that the cruising will ever make a comeback given how the tightly packed nature of cruise ships makes them highly susceptible to disease outbreaks.
Compared to other entertainment mediums, video games are thriving amidst the pandemic — at least at first glance. As game studios already allow working remotely and playing video games doesn't involve physical interaction with others, the industry saw record revenue during the first few months of the pandemic with relatively few layoffs. Most notably, Nintendo saw its profits soar by more than 428% in the April-June quarter thanks to the release of Animal Crossing: New Horizons around the same time mass lockdowns were happening. However, the cancellation of major trade shows like E3 has been a blow for indie developers who rely on conventions for exposure. As the pandemic dragged on, many developers began experiencing fatigue and reduced productivity as remote working limits their access to equipment normally located in studios like motion capture stages. For now, the video game industry are faring better than its film and theater peers, but there is still some doubt whether the current path is sustainable.
However, despite the delay or cancellation of multiple events worldwide, the international lockdown was made more bearable than it could have been mere decades ago thanks to the widespread availability of the Internet, providing many with easy access to sophisticated telecommunications, home entertainment, and education to help make the required physical distancing that much easier, as it has enabled many to not only work from home but also ensured that the streaming medium has flourished under the circumstances, with services like YouTube, Netflix and Disney+, to say nothing of online media retail like Google Play and Apple TV taking up the slack. Indeed, major film companies have taken the opportunity to make a virtue out of a necessity to try releasing major films online directly, such as Universal's DreamWorks Animation's Trolls: World Tour, to promising financial results. In some cases, pre-existing works involving themes of characters becoming sick were temporarily pulled from rotation so people wouldn't be reminded of the pandemic, such as Disney Channel pulling an episode of Amphibia in which Anne pretends to be sick from its lineup. In fact, with theatrical presention heavily restricted under the circumstances and regular television on the decline, Disney has announced it will be reorienting its media production with online streaming being the primary presentation medium.
The 2020 edition of the Eurovision Song Contest (to be held in Rotterdam, The Netherlands) was canceled because of the pandemic, just two months before it would have happened, marking the first time the long-running competition had ever been canceled since its inception in 1956. It was later decided that the prospective 2021 edition would return to Rotterdam with heightened health and safety precautions, as well as contingency plans to prevent a second cancelation if the virus is still a global issue by that point. While many of the acts who would have participated have confirmed their plans to return for 2021, all of their 2020 entries were deemed null and void (due to competition rules) and will need to select new songs to present. (The slogan for the 2020 edition, Open Up, became an ironic downer in the wake of its cancelation.)
After a brief period in March of just shooting without audiences, the television industry began to visibly adapt its forms of presentation to conditions. Some newscasters and most talk show hosts and live-episode reality show talent quickly adapted rooms, garages or patios in their homes into makeshift mini-studios - with guests also appearing by teleconference. SNL also finished its season with three at home episodes taped in this manner. Series like Holey Moley and The Masked Singer incorporated animated segments to replace ones they couldn't film. Several new shows were also created with teleconferencing as a primary feature to replace those not in production.
By fall 2020 production resumed on an adapted basis with socially distanced panel/contestant placement, audiences of teleconference monitors or cardboard cutouts (as previously done by pro sports), use of mannequins and spouses for kissing scenes - as well as less visible measures such as reduced hair/makeup, robotic cameras, masked crews and regular testing. However, news/talk guests often continued appear primarily via teleconference. The beginning of the Fall 2020 TV season was effectively shifted to November or January depending on the network. However, globally-oriented reality shows The Amazing Race and Survivor fully halted production of future seasons until feasible.
The Virus of the Mind
All this being said, the isolation caused by the quarantines has had a noticeably negative effect on the mental health of many populations, especially extraverts, for whom lack of large-scale social interaction is psychologically exhausting, leading psychologists to express concern about the sociopsychological aftereffects of the pandemic; especially given how several hospitals in the U.S. have reported a rise in suicide cases since self-quarantine went into effect.
Misinformation and conspiracy theories have been widespread during the pandemic (such as claims of the virus being man-made or a bioweapon or accusations that the death tolls were inflated to push a political agenda or even that the entire pandemic has been fabricated and there's no virus at all). It has gotten to the point that various social media websites such as Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Google had to work with the World Health Organization to combat the spread of misinformation (which had the unfortunate consequences of censoring many creators who just mentioned the virus by its name, forcing them to find ways around it). The other wiki has more information on this.
As a knock-on effect of the COVID-19 outbreak, global stock markets began to enter a correction in late February and then outright crashed in the week between March 9 and March 13, with Monday and Thursday of that week being called "Black Monday" and "Black Thursday" respectively as a result. Stocks only continued downhill from there, with the Dow Jones dropping below 20,000 for the first time since it climbed above that threshold in 2017. As it is, some businesses are seeing their stocks skyrocket, none more dramatically than Zoom, an online video conferencing service that has proven most useful for business, entertainment, social or even religious meetings in this public health crisis. However, that platform also faced criticism for its security flaws as a phenomenon called "Zoombombing" emerged, with many hackers, Internet trolls and delinquents intruding on video conference calls, then speaking or sharing racist, antisemitic, and/or otherwise Not Safe for Work content, usually forcing Zoom sessions to prematurely end.
One notable negative social effect of the pandemic is heightened xenophobia and racism against people perceived as being from areas that are heavily affected by the virus, such as East and Southeast Asians (especially ethnic Chinese). There has also been heightened racism against foreigners (particularly Africans) in China due to fears of a "second wave" of coronavirus outbreaks coming from foreignersnote . Scientists feared horseshoe bats and pangolins would become even more endangered as a result of hunting due to their being believed to be initial carriers of the disease, and Wuhan's public image was near-irreparably damaged as a result of being the center of the pandemic's first major outbreak. Calls for tighter restrictions on open-air markets have also become louder in response to the outbreak.
Countries that have begun to make preparations to reopen their borders have announced they will not allow citizens from countries with high infection rates into their countries. Due to the U.S. having the highest rate of infection worldwide this has severely limited American citizens from international travel (which is a tremendous reversal from the post-World War II status quo previously enjoyed by virtually every American). Notably only 9 countries in the world are open to U.S. citizens with no restrictions, all others require medical proof or enforce a quarantine protocol in order to allow them into their countries, and even a Canadian poll has determined that 81% of the Canadian citizens polled wish for their U.S. border to remain closed at least through the end of 2020.
The Continuing Effects
The World Health Organization has faced criticisms for how they handled the pandemic, to the point that many governments have accused the multinational organization of being directly influenced by Beijing, and the Trump administration considered cutting funding to said organization (the United States is considered the top financial contributor to the World Health Organization) before announcing their intent to withdraw from the WHO entirely. The US government itself faced criticisms for its slow response to the pandemic, including misinformation (such as the promotion of chloroquine, injections of disinfectant, and internal UV light application as treatments, which prompted the medical community and cleaning products manufacturers to quickly and publicly contradict that messaging saying those latter methods are medically useless and dangerous), the firing of US Navy captain Brett Crozier for whistleblowing on infected sailors aboard the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt, and a push to prematurely end lockdowns, which resulted in a far more devastating second wave of the virus with a much heavier effect on young adults. The Chinese government has utilized the pandemic as a foreign relations opportunity to portray themselves as a world leader in combating pandemics by sending medical teams and supplies to hard-hit areas (such as Italy), although the Chinese government has also faced criticisms within their own population and from other governments on how they have responded to the virus (such as the government's attempt to silence the Chinese whistleblower doctor, Li Wenliang, for trying to warn the public about the coronavirus before it became a pandemic). The pandemic has also worsened U.S. and Chinese diplomatic relations, which were already tense during the previous decade with the Trump administration's trade war with China. It has gotten to the point where both the United States and China are blaming each other for causing the pandemic with various acts of misinformation (such as the Chinese government's accusations that the coronavirus was brought by the U.S. military, and the American government's accusations that it began in a lab in Wuhan).
Practically every sports league on the planet, from the highest professional leagues down to local, amateur suburban leagues were either delayed from starting, prevented from finishing earlier than anticipated, had their seasons canceled outright or just ended things prematurely (with American football leagues that started in the fall being the only relatively lucky ones there), and public attendances were severely curtailed, if not outright banned altogether. The 2020 Summer Olympics was moved to 2021 as a result of the outbreak, after it forced many sports tournaments and qualifiers involved with the Olympics to be canceled, making it the first Olympics to be postponed in history (though with the "2020" branding intact), and the fourth games to be disrupted in the Olympic cycle (the 1916 Olympic games were canceled due to World War I, while World War II forced the cancellation of the 1940 and 1944 games, also making the 2020 Olympics the only one to be disrupted for a reason other than war).
Where do we go from here?
As the pandemic is still ongoing, the full impact of it cannot be fully determined, and the full impact may not be truly understood until years, maybe even decades later, depending on how things go. Many analysts predict that it will be the next big cultural and political reset button for the world moving forward in the same way the September 11, 2001 attacks functioned. In particular, it has been compared to The Spanish Flu of 1918 when similar precautions like mask-wearing and social distancing took place, and some analysts suggest that the pandemic fatigue will eventually usher in a new era of hedonism and spontaneity akin to The Roaring '20s. However, what exactly will come out of it is still only a matter of highly malleable guesswork at the moment.
The pandemic in fiction
Film
Borat Subsequent Moviefilm, the first film with mainstream exposure to address the subject, more precisely how people in the USA live through it and how the Trump administration handles it. That mockumentary wasn't intended to be about it since it started filming before the outbreak, but the inevitable circumstances prompted Sacha Baron Cohen to include it.
Corona, an upcoming Canadian drama thriller film about a group of people trapped in an elevator during the pandemic. The film was written and directed by Mostafa Keshvari, and made in part to address xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covid Zombies, a comedy horror film directed by Charles Band. It stars Cody Renee Cameron as Barbie, a woman who finds herself facing an outbreak of zombies infected by the pandemic.
Songbird, an upcoming thriller film produced by Michael Bay. It takes place in 2024 and follows a couple that tries to meet during the still ongoing pandemic and lockdown. This version of the virus has considerably mutated, with a mortality rate of 50%. Production started in May 2020.
Totally Under Control is a documentary by Alex Gibney, Ophelia Harutyunyan and Suzanne Hillinger, that details the Trump administration's response to and handling of the pandemic in America.
Shudder Original supernatural horror film Host was set in April 2020, during the early weeks of the UK's first lockdown. It is about a group of young women who accidentally summon a demon over a Zoom call.
Live-Action Television
Coastal Elites, a HBO Made-for-TV Movie about five people navigating through the pandemic in several big US cities. It stars Bette Midler, Sarah Paulson and Daniel Levy.
Love in the Time of Corona, a romantic comedy miniseries created by Johanna Johnson. It stars Leslie Odom Jr., Nicolette Robinson, Tommy Dorfman, Rainey Qualley, Gil Bellows, Rya Kihlstedt, Ava Bellows, and L. Scott Caldwell.
Parks and Recreation: "A Parks and Recreation Special" was a reunion special filmed online, featuring Leslie Knope checking in on the cast in lockdown.
Music
Fetch the Bolt Cutters, an album by Fiona Apple produced during the US lockdown that explores themes and imagery of confinement relevant to the pandemic as well as Apple's own personal history.
Ghosts V: Together and Ghosts VI: Locusts, two albums released by Nine Inch Nails during the pandemic as a show of solidarity with their fans.
McCartney III, an album single-handedly put together by Paul McCartney during the first UK lockdown.
While discussing the ongoing Development Hell of his still-upcoming album I/O, Peter Gabriel noted that he had written a new song about the pandemic after the first UK lockdown forced him to delay the record yet again.
Theatre
Covid fan tutte: A comedic adaptation of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's opera Così Fan Tutte, depicting life in the spring of 2020 as disrupted by the pandemic. It was created and produced by the Finnish National Opera.
Video Games
Covid99io is a Battle Royale Game and .io Game hybrid in which you bounce COVID-19 viruses with a paddle and a refillable blast ability to 49 other players. Getting hit with a virus raises your temperature, which causes you to lose if you reach 104 degrees. You can send viruses to others every so often and select how you target the other players.
World Of Mines received a sequel called World of Virus in June 2020, which is similar to the original but with a red virus you have to flag with pills and non-virus tiles you have to uncover instead. The game's icon depicts a girl wearing a mask, removing any remaining ambiguity what virus it is.
Webcomics
Apocalyptic Horseplay: The epilogue of the comic takes place in the year 2020 and showcases what the characters got up to after the events of the story. When it focus on Pesty, the horsemen of pestilence, it's shown that he was responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. The reason? To bring back his horse, Fever, who was stabbed and killed during the events of the story just as she reunited with him. Unleashing the pandemic allowed him enough power to reform her so the two could live peacefully in the East.
Western Animation
Bob's Burgers: Season 11, episode 2 "Terms of In-Rear-Ment" released October 4, 2020 centers around an outbreak of pinworms and the family quarantining and washing their hands to prevent the spread in a clear allegory for the COVID-19 pandemic.
South Park: "The Pandemic Special", with it naturally satirizing life during the pandemic around the town, as well as add in commentary about the "Defund the Police" campaigns that sprouted during the pandemic.

Useful Notes / Chernobyl
"Look at this place. Fifty thousand people used to live here. Now it's a ghost town. I've never seen anything like it."
— Captain MacMillan on Pripyat, Modern Warfare
The site of what is often regarded as the worst disaster in nuclear power history, the Chernobyl (AKA Chornobyl or V.I. Lenin Memorial) Nuclear Power Plant was one of USSR's biggest and most modern nuclear plants, designed to give power to the city of Kiev / Kyivnote , Ukrainian SSR (now Ukraine). The disaster was the first accident to score a 7 on the International Nuclear Event Scale, its highest rating (the only other with this rating is the Fukushima Daiichi disaster of 2011), and surrounding areas remain uninhabitable to this day.
The disaster, which happened on April 26, 1986 at 01:23 am Moscow time, was the result of several factors. The RBMK reactor designs used in Soviet plants were inherently flawed in that they could heat up very quickly and had an (unknown to its designers and operators) tendency to surge power levels when a SCRAM (AZ-5) button was pressed to stop the reaction. Reactor #4 (the newest of Chernobyl's reactors and the one in which the accident occurred) had a strong containment structure on the side, but not on its roof. The plant personnel were also carrying out a dangerous test with Reactor #4 for power outage protocols at night (since they didn't want to interfere with citizens' electricity usage) with inexperienced workers (the test was originally scheduled for earlier in the day, but Kiev's power grid controller asked for a delay due to end of month power requirements requiring the plant remain at 1600MW power for longer than it was supposed to, which led to a build up of xenon in the reactor that did not go away when the test got underway 11 hours later. By then, a shift change had occurred, and the experienced reactor operators were relieved by less experienced personnel not familiar with the test protocols). As they tried to maintain a delicate balance between cooling the reactor and powering it, things slowly got more and more out of hand. Then, communication between both sides got cut off. The person overseeing the test, Anatoly Dyatlov, insisted the test be done even as the reactor's power dropped to 200MW due to reactor poisoning (the test conditions were that it be done at a reactor core power of 700MW, as operating at 200MW was well below safety limits, and xenon-135 released as a fission byproduct caused the power to continue dropping). The explosion occurred when after several desperate corrections, the side controlling the graphite-tipped control rods (which had already taken out a dangerously large number of them to begin with) noticed that things were going wrong, and put too many back into the reactor all at once, triggering the disaster. The explosion wasn't like, say, a nuclear bomb explosion (where the relatively small bomb reaches millions of degrees), but more comparable to a boiler explosion (where the water temperature gets so high the vessel can't contain the pressure).
As this was still during the years of the Soviet Union, and Mikhail Gorbachev had only been in office for a year at this point, news about the disaster was slow to come out. The day after the disaster the people in the nearby company town of Pripyat were just minding their own business as usual, and it was not until the second day that action was actually taken: the government forces showed up at Pripyat and told everybody to pack only their essentials (they claimed the citizens of Pripyat could return later) and evacuate immediately. The radiation spread through Belarus, and the Kremlin remained tight-lipped. Then it spread to the Baltic states, and the Kremlin remained tight-lipped. Then the radiation reached the Capitalist bloc in Sweden... and that's where the cat got out of the bag and the Soviet Union had to admit that the accident happened. The international reaction led to a halt of almost all nuclear reactor development worldwide, with some (such as Italy) going so far as to close down their nuclear plants. Many neighboring areas to the plant were made instantly unsafe for habitation, with a 30 km Exclusion Zone established, with cities in the zone (most notably Pripyat, the city where workers of the plant lived) remaining ghost towns to this day.
The Soviets also had to contend with the plant remains, given that there was (and will be for the next several thousand years) enough plutonium inside Reactor #4 to potentially poison one hundred million people. Their initial response was to haphazardly have hundreds of thousands of men wearing lead suits briefly push some of the debris on the top of the reactor building down into the reactor for three minutes each, since the radiation levels were so high that doing it any longer would be extremely dangerous, even in the best radiation protection suits available. Once this was done, they hastily built a temporary containment structure (the "Sarcophagus") around what was left of Reactor #4. The plant remained operational until they could safely decommission each of the other reactors, with the plant finally closing down in the year 2000. Since the containment structure was meant to only be a short-term solution, a giant moving arch structure called the Chernobyl New Safe Confinement was built next to the plant. After several delays, the arch was moved into place in November 2016, and the end wall was completed in late 2018.
Containment cost the Soviet Union 18 billion rubles,note  and has cost hundreds of billions of dollars in containment and treatment since. The disaster was also a major factor in the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 — the immense cost of cleanupnote , the fact that attempting to cover up the incident only made it worse, Valery Legasov's testimony and his tapes coming to light after his suicide, the human toll of the disaster and General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev's push for more openness to the world (his glastnost policy) all cascaded and led to the superpower dissolving five years after the incident. The Chernobyl disaster led to 31 immediate deaths, with cancer deaths in Soviet Union estimated to be in the thousands, and estimations vary wildly on the effects and number of deaths the radioactive cloud caused throughout Europe. Cow milk in some parts of Ukraine still has five times the safe level of radiations as of 2019.
Contrary to popular belief, the Exclusion Zone is not as unsafe as you might think, though the plant is still highly radioactive and it is not recommended to get very close to it. While travel into the Exclusion Zone is strictly controlled and usually available only through tour groups, Pripyat (which is closest to the plant) and Chernobyl are safe to visit and are fairly well preserved Soviet ghost towns, though staying there longer than with the tour groups would be unwise, and you would do well to listen to your tour guide's instructions while you're there. The Exclusion Zone has also become an unintentional wildlife preserve, with many scientists studying the effects of radiation on such life, though with few exceptions, animals in the area don't seem affected by it much note .
Due to being home to ghost towns, the impossibility of detecting radiation without proper tools until it's too late, the abandoned plant itself being incredibly ominous and foreboding and giving off a very unsettling feeling, Chernobyl and its surrounding area lends itself well to horror and post-apocalypse settings.
Tropes associated with Chernobyl in popular culture:
Abandoned Area: An unfortunate result of the catastrophe. Families were told to pack only essential items with the implication that they would return (obviously, they never did), Pripyat and as a result, there are still family pictures, furniture, and other assorted items you'd find around the house still lying around relatively untouched, with the exception of most valuables and useful items—either the families took them with them, or they were looted in the years since the accident.
Abandoned Hospital: The Pripyat hospital, which took in the first radiation casualties of the accident (most of them were liquidators). Their clothes are still piled in the basement, and make that building the most radioactive place in the area other than the actual reactor.
Abandoned Playground: The theme park in Pripyat with its Ferris wheel. It was scheduled to open shortly after the disaster. There are also more conventional abandoned playgrounds in the area.
Black Site: In connection to its Forbidden Zone status, some fiction portrays it as hiding something top secret. In fact, the somewhat secret Duga-1 over-the-horizon radar (also known as the "Russian Woodpecker") is located less than 10 km from Chernobyl, well within the exclusion zone.
Company Town: Pripyat was this before the disaster. As was typical in the USSR for their key industry and military sites, the Soviets built an entire town near the plant to house its workers and their families. It possessed twenty schools, fifty stores and restaurants, ten gyms, and even an amusement park. Its population at the time of the disaster in 1986 was 49,360. After the disaster, the Soviets built an entire new town just for the evacuees, called Slavutych.
Creepy Basement:
The basement of Pripyat hospital is covered with Empty Piles of Clothing (which were worn by the liquidators, and are highly radioactive), and just walking into the room without adequate protection means significantly increased cancer risk.
The concrete room beneath the reactor, where the Elephant's Foot is located. The thing is a mass of corium ('nuclear lava' if you will) which has flowed and (not quite) solidified down there after eating the reactor's floor. It is so radioactive that it makes this room one of the most dangerous environments on Earth, people actually can't stand nearby too long without dying. Back in the first months and years after the disaster, it could kill a grown man in mere minutes, nowadays it still takes several hours of being exposed to it.
Disaster Dominoes: There were a great deal of different events that had to happen in order for the Chernobyl disaster to occur:
The colossal sizenote  of the RBMK reactor design and its loading assembly (itself a side-effect of being designed to be both cheap to make, run and maintain as well as being usable for producing weapons-grade plutonium if necessary) made a full-sized containment vessel and containment structure too expensive for the USSR to consider.
Construction was rushed so people like Bryukhanov could get completion bonuses. This meant things like the roof being made of combustible rather than fireproof materials, and the turbine safety test being conducted after the plant went into full-scale operation rather than before.
Several design flaws were present in the RBMK reactor design - some unknown at the time; others known, but classified and hidden even from the reactor operators.
The standby pumps - designed to cool the core in the event of a loss of grid power (a likely possibility in the Cold War) took a long time to get up to speed (mostly due to the sheer size of the thing), which is what necessitated the alternative turbine safety procedure being attempted in the first place.
Insertion time of the control rods was very slow, at around 20 seconds, compared to much less than five seconds for most reactor designs.
The design of the control rods (the tip being of graphite instead of boron like the rest) was such that whilst being inserted they speed up the reaction rather than slowing it down.
The high "positive void coefficient" of the design - basically, the hotter the reactor gets (or the less water there is being pumped through), the more steam bubbles form, which serves to not only cool the reactor less effectively but also to speed up the reactions as well; prime conditions for a runaway reaction.
Dyatlov changing the parameters of the test, intended to be carried out at a minimum power level of 700-1000MW, to only 200MW. Several automatic safety systems were ordered to be disabled by Dyatlov in order for this to happen, since the RBMK was unstable at low power.
Being unable to start the test on time (as another power station went offline earlier that day and Chernobyl was asked to stay operational longer) meant that the staff trained to complete the test had already gone home.
Rushing to complete the test led to the power level in the reactor dropping too quickly to almost nothing (a process known as reactor poisoning), at which point all of the reactor control rods were removed in order to raise reactor power to the 200MW Dyatlov wanted for the test. It worked.* 
When the test was started, the coolant pumps winding down resulted in too little coolant being pumped through the core, resulting in steam bubbles forming and the reactor beginning a runaway feedback loop.
When reactor power began to surge, Akimov hit the emergency shutdown button at which point the counter-intuitive design of the control rods made the overheating reactor even hotter, ultimately resulting in the reactor exploding.
Driven to Suicide: Valery Legasov, a prominent chemist and member of USSR's Academy of Sciences. With the miscommunication going on, he was sent to investigate the then "small incident" at Chernobyl, only be horrified at the full-scale of the catastrophe; he worked frantically to avert a second steam explosion. He later hanged himself, leaving behind a series of recorded tapes, detailing how disillusioned he had become of the Soviet government's secrecy censoring key details of the Chernobyl disaster and its failure to confront the reactor design flaws. Legasov's suicide caused shockwaves through the industry. note 
Failsafe Failure: The AZ-5 system was intended to act as a SCRAM system, shutting off the reactor in an emergency. However, due to the graphite-tipped control rods, which actually increased reactivity before suppressing it, the already unstable reactor exploded when ~200 control rods were inserted at once, bringing its power output to about 30,000 MW - Chernobyl's nominal output was around 3,200 MW.
Forbidden Zone: Again, the Chernobyl exclusion zone.
Ghost Town: Pripyat is one of the most iconic (and creepy) examples in modern media.
Heroic Sacrifice: The disaster could have been greater if not for the bravery of firefighters, engineers and military personnel deployed to the plant to deal with the fire and the meltdown. They are collectively known as Chernobyl liquidators. Many knew that the consequences of getting so close to the reactors was certain (and quite painful) death, but at the same time knew that if they didn't act, millions more could have died. At least 37 people died as a direct result of the disaster, and several went on to receive some of the highest bravery decorations the USSR granted at the time, including the Order of the Red Banner, the Order of Lenin (second highest) and the Hero of the Soviet Union (highest).
Special mention goes to Alexei Ananenko, Boris Baranov and Valeri Bezpalov, who volunteered to dive into the bubbler pools underneath the reactor to manually open the valves to drain the water that was dangerously heating up and threatened a steam explosion. The bubbler pools were flooded with radioactive water and they risked severe radiation poisoning. They went in anyway and averted a catastrophe.
Contrary to popular Western belief, all three men survived and continued to work in the industry. Ananenko and Bezpalov were alive in 2018, Baranov died of a heart attack in 2004. All three were awarded the Order for Courage in the Third Degree in 2018 (Baranov posthumously). Post-Rock band We Lost the Sea themselves (having written a song about the three men called "Bogatyri") admitted they believed these rumors as well and acknowledged the mistake.
Hiroshima as a Unit of Measure: Reactor meltdown about to happen in your story? Use "X" Chernobyls to describe how bad it's going to get.
Irony: The purpose of the test on Unit 4 was to try and improve reactor safety in the event of an attack. The end result however...
Nuclear Nasty: As a place of radioactive contamination, many stories portray the area as a source of these. While radioactivity has nasty effects on living bodies, monstruously mutated organisms are mostly averted in real life. Local animals are not affected by the radiation heavily (not living long enough to see effects) and some even adapt to the radioactive environment.
Reclaimed by Nature: It only took a few years for vegetation to take over the city of Pripyat itself. More than 30 years later, the background radiation is still too high for humans to inhabit the area, though you can safely travel through the countrysides just fine, as you wouldn't begin to feel any effects of the radiation for close to two weeks. Scientific studies of various flora and fauna have shown that they adapted to the radiation (various birds have increased levels of antioxidants to counter the free radicals), and are thriving just fine, albeit with a shorter-than-average lifespan.
Chernobyl in Media:
Anime & Manga 
Mentioned in Gunslinger Girl, as Elisabeta/Petruskha had lived in a part of the Ukraine that had been heavily affected by Chernobyl, which ended up giving her cancer. This led to her leg getting amputated, ruining her dream of becoming a ballerina, and led her to attempt suicide, which brought her to the attention of the Agency that made her a cyborg. It's revealed near the end of the series that Chernobyl also gave her leukemia, which eventually kills her.
    Fan Works 
Referenced several times as a recurring theme in relation to John's psychological state in the Sherlock fanfiction story, Radioactive Trees In A Red Forest.
    Films — Live-Action 
Chernobyl Diaries is a horror film following a group of American tourists who visit the Exclusion Zone. The trip goes downhill very quickly and ends with an accidental visit to the inside of the reactor itself and massacre by mutated humanoid zombies.
The Babushkas Of Chernobyl is a 2015 documentary about the elderly villagers (most of them women) who had returned to live in their homes within the Exclusion Zone despite the danger. It records their daily routines and thoughts on the disaster and includes short interviews with doctors and other experts on the evacuated area.
In Godzilla (2014), the ruins in the Janjira "death zone" were clearly inspired by photos of Pripyat.
In Godzilla (1998), Nick Tatopoulos is studying the effects of radiations on earthworms in Chernobyl when the US military summons him to study Godzilla.
The climactic fight of A Good Day to Die Hard occurs in Chernobyl.
The Marie Curie biopic Radioactive shows flash forwards to various applications and consequences of radiation, including the accident at Chernobyl.
A part of Transformers: Dark of the Moon takes place here; the protagonists discover some tech taken from the Ark (the Autobots' ship) and Shockwave (who, according to the prequel comics, had been sealed underneath Chernobyl for years) shows up and attacks the men investigating the tech.
Universal Soldier: Regeneration has the protagonist diffusing a hostage situation at the Chernobyl plant.
The environmental disaster that weakens the Klingon Empire at the beginning of Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country is widely considered to have been inspired by Chernobyl.
    Literature 
The 1997 book Voices from Chernobyl: The Oral History of a Nuclear Disaster is a collection of interviews with survivors of the disaster compiled by Svetlana Alexievich. It was the first book to provide personal accounts of the accident's impact.
    Live-Action TV 
Chernobyl is a 2019 miniseries that covers the events that occurred before, during, and after the disaster. Jared Harris plays Valery Legasov, the scientist put in charge of putting out the fire and mitigating the fallout.
Life After People used footage of Pripyat to illustrate how civilization's remnants would fall apart after two decades without any human presence.
In the Millennium episode, "Maranatha", it featured a Villain of the Week who was actually responsible for the Chernobyl disaster, as he was a religious psychotic who wanted to start the Apocalypse by creating wormwood.
One episode of River Monsters was shot in Pripyat and near Reactor #4, as Jeremy Wade was searching for supposed giant mutated fish. In the end, he caught nothing that was close to a mutant monster. It was a Wels catfish, which he'd previously caught in an earlier season in Spain, but the one from Chernobyl was less than half the size of an ordinary Wels of the same general age.
In episode 3 of Series 21 of Top Gear, The Final Challenge involves the hosts trying to run out of fuel so that they don't have to drive into this area. Only Richard Hammond succeeds. The other two end up having to drive into the exclusion zone, taking necessary precautions, and Jeremy Clarkson runs out of gas in Pripyat. The duo had to go through Pripyat at night, an absolutely terrifying experience as it is almost pitch black.
In the The X-Files episode "The Host", Scully concludes that the Flukeman creature was created due to radioactive sewage from Chernobyl.
    Video Games 
The Arctic Thunder arcade game has a course called Chernobyl Meltdown. It references many of the other ways the Soviets used nuclear power, and ends with a drive through the plant. Artistic License applies heavily here.
Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has two levels that take place here. Told in flashback not long after the meltdown, it involves sneaking through the containment and hot zones lovingly crafted and recreated to the smallest detail from the real place.
Chernobylite is a Survival Sandbox set in Pripyat. The protagonist is a scientist whose bride disappeared in the accident. Also focuses around a fictional material called Chernobylite that can defy physics and control flow of time, which has also attracted Russian interest and thus making them an antagonist force in the game.
CHERNOBYL: The Untold Story is a Russian game that was created in response to the HBO miniseries, as the latter generated controversy there.
In Metal Gear Solid, a codec reveals that Nastasha Romanenko used to live near the Chernobyl plant (implied to have been Pripyat) and her parents both died in the work to contain the disaster. This is the source of her strong anti-nuclear weapon stance.
In Snatcher, the Catastrophe involving an explosion at a nuclear facility in Chernoton, Russia, releasing a biotoxin called Lucifer-Alpha is similar to the Chernobyl disaster.
S.T.A.L.K.E.R: Shadow of Chernobyl takes place in a world where a second explosion occurs at the power plant and results in the Zone (as the game calls the area) becoming a bizarre place of anomalies and mutants. Taken further with the sequel having the subtitle "Call of Pripyat". The scary thing being that a second explosion was a real threat during the initial containment of the disaster, the molten "corium", responsible for formations like the Elephant's Foot, could've hit cooling water in the basement and triggered an even bigger flash-steam explosion if not for a few brave workers that swam around said water in the dark in order to drain it.
The Strike Series entry Soviet Strike plays up the horror movie aspect of the setting while addressing the very real disaster through stock footage of the aftermath and potential terrorist threat of trying to gain access to the nuclear materials of the melted down reactor.
    Webcomics 
On top of Chernobyl being mentioned in a few strips in xkcd, the comic creator even made a chart chronicling radiation doses, which, naturally, refers to Chernobyl quite a bit.
In Polandball, Belarus is often depicted as having three eyes in reference to the Chernobyl disaster. (Chernobyl is located near the Ukraine/Belarus border, and Belarus suffered the majority of the contamination from the accident.)
    Web Original 
Chernobyl Curs was an Original Character Tournament featuring dog Original Characters that takes place in Pripyat.
    Western Animation 
Referenced several times in The Simpsons, usually made in light that some kind of terrible accident was (barely) averted at the Springfield nuclear power plant.
Spiderman The Animated Series: In The Six Forgotten Warriors arc towards the end of its run, the Big Bad has a base of operations beneath the power plant. Inevitably, Spidey, a bunch of mercs, Kingpin and the Sinister Six all end up outside, which is when they​ all take notice of their surroundings. Rhino doesn't see what the big deal is, Kingpin is nonplussed, while Scorpion, Vulture and Doc Ok are having a collective Oh, Crap!. The prospect of radiation poisoning steers both teams to call it a draw and leave pronto.

Useful Notes / The French Revolution
"From this place, and from this day forth begins a new era in the history of the world (...)"
—Goethe to the defeated German soldiers after the Battle of Valmy note 
The era in French history known for Marie Antoinette allegedly giving her subjects some dietary advice. The people responded by storming the Bastille, then Versailles, until they found her and her husband and guillotined them, and a few other nobles for good measure. It promised Liberty, Equality, Fraternity but led to the rise of Napoléon Bonaparte. He marched across Europe, stopped only by Richard Sharpe or the Russian winter, depending on your nationality.
That's The Theme Park Version. The real history of the French Revolution was even more of a wild ride. Start with a series of nations (Britanny, Gascogne, etc. etc.) that have little in common with each other but are bound by King and Church. France was drained by three major world wars in the last hundred years, and lots of smaller ones besides. There were these expensive-to-make-and-keep royal palaces, a new and very young king and queen who don't have a clue how to run the country, a nobility that did not want to pay exorbitant taxes even if they had money and didn't use it at all, with the emerging middle and lower-classes being asked to foot an exorbitant bill. A nation with an obsolete form of government that had missed the reforms that modernized England in the intervening hundred years. Over and above, there was the escalating famine, where bread is too expensive for the average person in the Parisian Basin to buy.
The King himself shared some of this frustration, and he and his various finance ministers (Turgot, Necker, and Callonne) spent the better part of the 1780s trying to figure out a way to reform the royal finances and thus avert financial catastrophe. They had a number of good ideas (and a large number of not-so-good ones), but that didn't really matter because in order for any royal decree to come into effect as law, it had to be registered by the parlements: local judicial and quasi-legislative assemblies of jurists across France that held an important role in France's legislative process. (You thought the King's word was law? He wished!) As it so happened, the parlements were made up of people who to the last man would be adversely affected by any serious reform, and they used every trick in the book to prevent or at least delay registration of any reform laws—and very effectively, since they were all lawyers. They even got a good amount of popular support, as they argued that they were acting as defenders of French freedom and the ancient traditions of the French constitution—even though they were blocking legislation that would make the lives of most Frenchmen materially better.
Thus in late 1786, the King called an "Assembly of Notables"—an appointed body of high-ranking and prominent men called in to advise the King, not called since 1620, in the hope that that would pressure the parlements to register the laws. No such luck—when the Notables met in 1787, they were mostly from the same class as the members of the parlements, and uniformly the response of the Assembly was "We can't help you. The only way to get around the parlements is to call the Estates-General."
Louis was not pleased at this response, because (1) he knew that (the point of the Assembly was not to get around the parlements, but to encourage/pressure the parlements to do what the King wanted—"look, the worthiest men of the realm are totally for these changes, don't you think you should just let the decrees go through?") and (2) calling the Estates-General was exactly what he and the royal ministry had been trying to avoid. The Estates-General was an ancient body, going back to the truly feudal era, and largely similar to the old structure of the English/British Parliament: an assembly of clergy (the "First Estate"), an assembly of nobles (the "Second Estate"),note  and of everyone else (the "Third Estate"). Each "estate" chose its representatives, who would then meet and discuss and advise the King on important matters of state—particularly matters of finance (as France's patchwork tax system was often structured in a way that made it hard to change without an Estates-General).
Louis knew that if he called an Estates-General, he could probably force through the needed financial reforms. The Estates-General, being an assembly of all major groups of French society, would have the unquestioned legitimate authority to make whatever changes it wanted to the kingdom's revenue and financial systems. Moreover, given that everybody now understood the dire state of the treasury, the Estates were likely to actually use its legitimacy to make reforms. However, that same legitimacy would also allow it to attempt to conduct reforms and make demands that went beyond the royal finances, possibly even holding the financial reforms hostage to gain concessions.
Despite being a little dim, Louis was well aware that this is more or less exactly what had happened to Charles I of England about 150 years previously, and that calling the English Estates—that is, Parliament—had cost Charles his head and the English monarchy nearly all of its political power. There was a reason that none of the French monarchs had seen fit to call an Estates-General since 1614—an Estates-General was a powerful tool because of the immense legitimacy it had to make big changes, but that same legitimacy made it extremely dangerous. Better, Louis thought, to try to make do with what was possible without the Estates. But the Assembly of Notables was his last chance, and they told him in no uncertain terms that he had no options. So after a few futile attempts to bring the parlements to heel in 1787 and 1788, King Louis XVI called a meeting of the Estates-General at Versailles in May 1789.
The election of the 1789 Estates General brought people from across France to the government. Many of the representatives were quite young and very few of them had direct experience in handling politics. Almost immediately it became clear that the Third Estate, whose representatives were from the middle classes, professionals and guild members, were in effect a separate ruling body on their own and that they represented France better than the first two estates. The great debate was that traditionally, the Estates-General had been three equally sized bodies who each offered one vote per estate, and thus had been dominated by aristocrats, who were the nobility (obviously) and generally the clergy, since most of the clergy were high-ranking church officials who were non-inheriting children. The Third Estate protested this greatly and in an age where newspapers were rampant and the Enlightenment was running wild across Europe, they demanded that the Third Estate be double the size (in essence, 250 nobles, 250 clergy, 500 commoners) and that voting be done by head rather than by order (thus handing most power to the Third Estate). The king and his ministry quickly agreed to double the Third Estate's numbers, but never did get around to deciding whether voting would be by orders or by head.
Therefore, when the Estates met in May 1789, there were still no clear procedures for how the body would function. However, within a few days, the Third Estate had realized that under the circumstances, it could basically dictate terms to the other two estates. Besides the fact that it had as many members as the othe two estates combined, the Third Estate realized quickly that unlike previous sessions of the Estates, the Second and especially the First Estates were not uniformly aristocratic in inclination. For various reasons, the First Estate of 1789 was composed primarily not of prelates of noble descent but of common parish priests, whose concerns were much more aligned with the commoners of the Third Estate than the nobles of the Second. Consequently, the First Estate was sharply divided against itself in 1789, where in previous sessions it had been a relatively united aristocratic assembly. On top of this, a not insignificant number of liberal nobles sympathetic to the Third Estate's concerns had won election to the Second Estate; while they were hardly a majority, there were enough of them that the Second Estate's meetings were not the picture of aristocratic unity the Crown might have hoped them to be.
In light of this, the Third Estate declared itself a "National Assembly" at the suggestion of the abbé Sieyès (who although a clergyman was a Third Estate delegate for Var), , and invited members of the other two estates to join. Several parish priests crossed over from the First Estate to the "National Assembly", which led to a tug of war between the "National Assembly" on one hand and the Second and First Estate on the other. A few liberal nobles also trickled in from the Second Estate (the Marquis de La Fayette being the most prominent).
The situation crystallized when the "National Assembly", upon finding out one day that their meeting hall was locked for some reason, chose to meet on their own in a tennis court. They took an oath not to disband until a new constitution was established for France, which was basically a dare for anyone else to challenge the "National Assembly's" authority.
It quickly became clear that nobody could do anything without the "National Assembly." After a large group of liberal nobles led by the Duke of Orleans crossed over to the Assembly, the king decided he had had enough of this nonsense and ordered the rest of the First and Second Estates to follow them. This made it most apparent that the fading aristocracy would have little voice and role in a more modern state bringing about reactions in the government, both sides became bolder in their positions. This created the tensions of the Revolution, as proposals of changes were met by reactions which spurred even more radical proposals for changes that provoked even more reactions and so on and so forth.
Meanwhile, the citizens of Paris, emboldened by the initiative of the National Assembly and responding to rumors (some of which were true) that troops were marching to shut down the Third Estate, stormed the Bastille (a French fortress) in search of arms. This marked the start of the Revolution, with a peasant revolt breaking out in the countryside as peasants attacked castles and noble mansions and literally set fire to records containing list of dues they owed to their master. The National Assembly, very concerned by these actions and trying to calm the rebellious anger,note  figuratively get high off patriotism and self-sacrifice and then literally tear down feudalism overnight with the August Decrees of 1789, by magnanimously surrendering their privileges and then calling on others to do the same, abusing the hell out of peer pressure. Finally, in October, the King and Queen were dragged from Versailles to the Tuileries Palace in the city by the women of Paris. By which point, Nothing Is the Same Anymore.
After this, the Revolution faced a series of problems, many of them revolving on debates that were Older Than Feudalism but got stirred up during The Enlightenment. Obviously old-fashioned autocratic Kingdom, Divine Right of Kings, feudal class distinctions and religious control on social levers was getting increasingly unacceptable. If the King and Church was removed, or at least, if their power was limited anyhow, what could take its place? The suggestion put forth was "the Nation" revolving around a conception of French identity that individuals of all classes, all beliefs in all regions could share and accept. Problem was that most of France, outside of the Paris Basin, didn't really feel this unified 'French' identity, and nobody was sure about how, if at all, this idea of the "French nation" was ever to really replace the local traditions of feudal monarchy, always backed by the Church that was more than a millennium old.
A few voices even suggested doing away with the King and declaring a republic, but most were still skeptical that a republic could govern such a large nation since it had hitherto mostly been observed in Italian city-states and the ancient world, which covered a smaller area. The only republic of comparable size was the United States, and even the most sympathetic French rightly viewed it skeptically; the first government under its new federal constitution had met that very spring, and even then it still didn't have full control of its claimed territory (North Carolina would not join until November; Rhode Island held out until May 1790). The largest stable republic anyone had ever seen was the Netherlands, and even that was seen as more or less a monarchy (since the Prince of Orange was almost inevitably the stadtholder of all or most of the constituent provinces). The only precedent they had for stable popular government in a country that size was Great Britain's constitutional monarchy.
And then there was religion. The question of separating Church and State, provided a different set of problems and tools than that available to the leaders of the The American Revolution.note  France was "the eldest daughter of the Catholic Church" and a pillar of the Counter-Reformation, and the Church was its largest land owner; heavily involved in culture, society and rituals, placing them in the firing range to many measures to reform finance, fix the economy and establish nationalism. They had support from reformist priests and bishopsnote  but not a complete consensus.
The result was the French Revolution's original sin: the well-intentioned mess of the Civil Constitution of the Clergy. This legislation demanded that priests across France swear an oath to the Nation above the Pope, accept wages from the government and devolve to the status of civil servants and accept nationalization and confiscation of Church property. This was truly divisive and controversial to say the least, since it offended the beliefs of many devout Catholics, including the King.
The oath particularly stung, since papal supremacy in spiritual matters is a core Catholic tenet, and the new oath didn't seem to leave any room for that. The state wages were not really a problem, being a logical extension of the "Gallican" theory of papal power of which France had long been a bastion. The Gallican theory was that the Pope had no authority over temporal affairs outside of lands he personally ruled. For centuries, the French Crown had enjoyed the absolute right to appoint all bishops and abbots in France—with a theoretical but never-used papal veto—and there was no expectation this would change.
Consequently, most French clerics wouldn't have seen the wage as that big an issue—just a beefier form of Gallicanism. While the tithe the wages were replacing had some biblical support, the way the tithes were distributed in Ancien Regime France—mostly to the high prelates, with practically nothing going to the parish priests—meant that for the vast majority of French clergy, the regular civil service wage the Civil Constitution promised was actually a better deal than they had been getting. While the parish priests would definitely have preferred the continuation of tithes, with the income stream being redirected at them, becoming a government employee wasn't a huge deal in itself. As for the bishops and abbots, they were almost to a man the younger sons of exactly the sort of high nobility who had come to the grim realization that this revolution meant their time was up.
There was less daylight between the parish priests and the hierarchy on the subject of Church property, but it wasn't as big a deal as it seemed. While they all hated the principle of seizing Church property and railed against it in their sermons, this wasn't anything they hadn't seen before. Governments across Europe had seized Church property from time to time since the Middle Ages, and while the Church always made a big fuss about it, the resistance was usually limited to scathing oratory so long as the situation was dire (which the French Church admitted it was) and the state took only what it needed. Besides, the priests had long grumbled about the extraordinary splendor of the prelates, and probably didn't care all that much so long as what was seized was just farms and jewels and such that happened to be Church-owned rather than actual church buildings and holy items. Indeed, parish priests probably would have had not a little bit of schadenfreude at the prospect of siezing property from the abbeys and monasteries, which were often seen as "refuges" for indolent and troublesome nobles and unproductive parasites that consumed Church income without ministering to the people or doing any productive work themselves.
The oath, however, was a bridge too far. Centuries of Gallicanism had conditioned the vast majority of French Catholics to believe that at a minimum their government had a right to expect that in the event of a political conflict between France and the Papal States, the French clergy wouldn't be actively pushing enemy propaganda from their pulpits every Sunday. However, Gallicanism always recognized the authority of the Pope in matters of Church doctrine, and the Civil Constitution's oath seemed to contradict that, as well. Under such an oath, could the French Church really be seen as "Catholic" in any significant way?
The plan was also implemented without full understanding of regional diversity. In relatively urbanized areas under close royal supervision, like the Paris Basin, people largely went along with the plan, even if there was some grumbling by the particularly devout (like, again, the King). By contrast, the Civil Constitution failed utterly in more rural regions, traditionally far away from royal influence; most priests in these regions refused to take the oath and thus became known as "nonjuring" priests (i.e. refusing to swear).
Nowhere in France was the failure of the Civil Constitution more apparent in the very rural western region known as the Vendée. In the Vendée, most of the peasants liked the local nobles, who by and large kept to the old principle of noblesse oblige, and the local clergy, whom they regarded as honorable defenders of their deeply-held Catholic faith. Together, the nobles and the clergy funded and ran Catholic charities that served as a fairly decent social support for the region (making the Vendée one of the few places where the idealized notions about the nobility and the Church came close to reality). The Civil Constitution, which stripped the Church of its property, combined with the emigration of the nobility and the division of the émigré lands, therefore not only seemed like an unjust attack to the people of the Vendée, it stripped them of their safety net. And they needed that net because of rampant Loophole Abuse with the sale of the seized property, which was supposed to be available to peasants but was in practice all taken by well-off bourgeois merchants. Moreover, because of the weird way in which seignieurial dues were supposedly "abolished" (certain ones were deemed property rights that could not be taken away without compensation, and so still remained after "abolition"), these new bourgeois owners often enforced to the hilt various dues the less businesslike nobles and Church had let slide, squeezing the peasantry just as they were losing their main means of support in hard times.
This seriously undermined popular support for revolutionary aims in the Vendée. The aristocratic counterrevolutionaries opposed the Revolution's changes on general principle (as well as outrage for losing ancient privileges they felt entitled to), but their numbers were few and their political attitude could be best described as "utterly demoralized." By contrast, the Civil Constitution alienated poor but devout peasants, who might have gone along with some of the Revolution's policies (after all, what kind of peasant doesn't want more land and lower taxes?), but turned permanently against the Revolution when it turned on their beloved Church—especially after the Civil Constitution was condemned by the Pope. This led to a long-running counterrevolutionary revolt/insurgency in the Vendée (occasionally spreading to surrounding regions like Brittany). The insurgency became a constant, festering ulcer for the Revolution, often distracting from other policy priorities and threats (including foreign wars) at critical moments.
Then there's the issue of who gets to vote. About the only thing everyone (Royalist-Centrist-Leftist) agreed on was that only men could vote; on this they agreed with the American Founding Fathers and the English Parliamentarians. But after that, the disagreements began. Initially there was suffrage censitatire—distinctions between "active" and "passive" citizenship, where active citizens (wealthy tax paying property owners) could vote but passive citizens could not. This struck many as a revival of feudal caste distinctions, but the historical precedent at the time was that no republic or democracy in the classical world ever had universal suffrage.note  The people of Paris and other parts of France, gathering in a variety of political clubsnote  obviously resented these distinctions between "passive" and "active" citizens and felt miffed about having no voice after all the public support they gave to the Third Estate and Assembly. Repeated dismissals of these gatherings as a mob, also made them partial to the idea of "direct democracy"; where the assemblies of people in the Paris Commune, clubs and other parts of the nation were no less legitimate than the actions and goings on of the National Assembly. After all the Assembly claimed their legitimacy from popular sovereignty, and how could representatives compete with actual popular gatherings.note 
These debates, at first, played out in the National Assembly, in journals, debated in the clubs and the streets. Eventually it became matters of life and death, as everyone took a stance for their beliefs on increasingly partisan lines. A series of incidents took place, often described as a century's worth of activity in a decade. The King after seemingly accepting the Constitution and Limited Monarchy, discredited himself in the failed plot of the Flight to Varennes. This set of a chain reaction of events: there was an agitation for war to spread the revolution, a second insurrection that toppled the Constitutional Monarchy and installed the First French Republic, victory and setbacks in the battlefield, the execution of the King, internal insurrections in different parts of France, invasion by external powers on all sides, calls for extreme measures on the government to meet these threats, the Reign of Terror with its many high profile victims, the stunning reversal of the military situation from the jaws of defeat to total victory, the end of the terror, a new conservative Republic that resorted to using the army to purge factions that seem to topple the centrist hegemony, and ending with the military coup of Napoléon Bonaparte.
The Revolution's liberal and progressive achievements were enshrined in The Declaration of Rights of Man and Citizen. Several basic rights were first outlined here. In a radical idea at the time, divorce was legalized and so was, surprisingly, homosexual sex. Guilds were abolished, allowing more people to enter professions that had previously placed stringent requirements meant to protect its members from competition.note  It also expanded equal rights of citizenship to minorities such as Jews and Protestants, and later free men of colour and mulattos. The more radical measures from the later parts of the revolution would be reversed by the time of Napoleon's arrival, or even before it, but these measures still proved important for the later development of democracy. This includes the first general election of elected representatives by universal male suffrage in the history of the world. This took place in 1792 after the August 10 Insurrection and the establishment of the First French Republic.note 
The other radical measure is the first general abolition of slavery in the Western world, without pre-conditions or compensation for slaveowners. This took place in February 1794, in response to the Revolution in Haiti.note 
Ever since the Revolution took place, it has been one of the most debated and contested of all historical events, if not, the most contested and debated event. Conservatives disapproved of such radical social transformation on basic principle, reactionaries argued that the whole event was arranged by a small minority of the Freemasons and The Illuminati and had zero popular support. Moderate 19th Century liberals argued that everything was going fine but was derailed by radicals who were greedy for voting rights they didn't merit, rather than trusting in their carefully voted-in elites. Radical revolutionaries unsurprisingly took inspiration from the Terror and saw it as means for bringing about utopian changes to society and believed the events failed because its leaders were too moderate. Unsurprisingly, these interpretations usually say more about later political developments than they do about the actual events. Political Ideologies of the 19th and 20th Century, and the European political spectrum, to this very day, is largely oriented by one's opinions on the French Revolution: the terms "left" and "right" themselves originate in where the delegates sat in the national assembly (other cool terms like Montagnard (Mountaineer) have not survived).note  The Revolution also made and codified tropes associated with nationalism, such as national flags, national festivals, national holidays on significant anniversaries, monuments open to the public, museums and institutions for public education.
Some basic notes
The French Revolution's political goal wasn't originally to abolish the monarchy, but to diminish the King's powers. Louis XVI remained popular until the Flight to Varennes and stayed King until 1792. His title before the Revolution was King of France and Navarre. In 1791, when he swore to uphold the Constitution, his title changed to "King of the French."note  He called the Estates-General in 1789 and despite recalcitrance, took an oath to abide by the Constitutional Monarchy which, at Mirabeau's insistence, gave him a veto. This did not work out quite as expected since, the King and the Royal Court kept issuing vetoes on every issue (earning him and his wife the nickname "Monsieur and Madame Veto").
Constitutional Monarchy at the time enjoyed consensus until the death of Mirabeau. At this time, even Robespierre was reluctant about a Republic, he wanted to erode the King's inviolability and veto, but felt confident in the Constitutional Monarchy. This changed after the Flight to Varennes, an unmitigated PR disaster which discredited the formerly popular King, led to a protest gathering to petition for a formation of a Republic, which was suppressed by the National Guard, leading to the Champs de Mars massacre. This led to increasing polarization and factionalism, and converted moderates into radicals.
A faction of the Jacobins, led by Jacques-Pierre Brissot came to be called the Girondins or Brissotins. They were the leading voices in the years 1792-early 1793. They were slow to pass reforms, represented and catered to the provincial cities rather than the Parisian sans-culottes/nascent working-class. They also sought to energize the Revolution by declaring war on Austria which Robespierre famously opposed, only to be silenced as it gained support even among extremists like the Hebertists.
The Storming of the Tuileries marked the end of Constitutional Monarchy and the birth of the Republic, which led to calls for a new republican constitution. This event took place on August 10, 1792 and was led by Cordeliers, sans culottes, the Paris Commune, the National Guard as well as volunteers from the Province called Federalists. They came mainly from Marseilles and along the way they picked up a song and popularized it during their march, this became known as "La marseillaise".
The King was imprisoned in the Temple Fortress after the insurrection, while the Queen was kept at La Force prison. He was executed in January 1793. The debates during the trial hardened the political polarization between Jacobins and Girondins, and the execution of the King broke off diplomatic relations between France and England, which had grown worse and worse until finally the Girondins declared war on England, which led to a Naval Blockade around France.
As the war started going badly, there were calls for Conscription. An attempt to call for conscription in the Vendee region provoked a massacre of 200 Republicans at Machecoul and the weakness of the early troops sent to deal with them exacerbated an insurrection into a full-blown counter-revolutoniary rebellion. When the War started losing ground, and General Dumouriez who the Girondins had touted as highly sympathetic to the nation, defected to the enemy along with other noble defections, France found its borders threatened. This led to a city-wide insurrection that put the Jacobins in power, drove the Girondins to exile and prison, sparking another provincial rebellion, described as the federalist revolt. France now had enemies on all its sides, two rebellions inside its border, and an increasingly angry Parisian mob.
To meet the challenge of the war, the emergency laws of the Terror were unleashed, in response to public demand. It was justified by Minister of Justice Georges Danton as maintaining the state monopoly on violence and to this end, Danton established the Revolutionary Tribunals. The proper beginning of the Terror comes with the passing of the Law of Suspects. The Reign of Terror was confined geographically to Paris, and areas of external and internal revolt, with the majority of France unaffected by it.
The National Convention granted mandate to the Commitee of Public Safety to ensure that the government remains "Revolutionary until the Peace". Membership in the Committee was renewed every month by votes in the convention and they were an executive body of 12 Men, charged with revolutionary dictatorship. They introduced mass Conscription - the Levee en masse issued by the great engineer Lazare Carnot. This involved able-bodied men, women and children performing all kinds of actions in what is often seen as the first attempt to mount a total war. Women were sent to hospitals and sent to work while the men were sent to fight the War in all kinds of capacities. Such initiative and mobilization would be repeated on a far grander scale during World War I and World War II.
The Terror killed 17,000 people by Guillotine after a trial. While unofficial executions may have gone up to 40,000. Towards the final month of Thermidor, it became worse, a period called the "Great Terror". Statistically, and contrary to popular belief, only 8% of the victims were aristocrats (who considering they were 1% of the population did feel a disproportionate impact), 25% of the victims were bourgeois and middle-class, 28% were peasants and working-class and the rest were clergy. During the "Great Terror" after the Law of 22 Prarial, where 1000 people were executed in a single month (matching the executions in Paris the previous year), the victims became 38% Nobility, 26% Clergy, with the wealthy victims discriminated against since the law deprived them of a right to call for witnesses, legal representatives or evidence by which according to Georges Couthon (who drafted the law to the Convention), wealthier accused escaped the blade before. Ironically, the largest single mass-execution of the Revolution, 77 people in a single day happened on the day after Robespierre's execution. Over three days, the National Convention purged and executed without trial 100 people connected to Robespierre and the Paris Commune.
The Revolutionary government introduced several cultural initiatives that changed the arts and sciences. The most successful were a bunch of units introduced by the National Convention in Year 3 (1795) like the meternote  for lengths, the liter for volumes of liquid, the gram for mass, along with multiples of these units by factors of 2 and 10 like the kilogram (1000 grams), double decaliter (20 liters), or the centimeter (0.01 meters). It since has become quasi universal.
During the Terror, the Revolutionary Calendar was introduced. The calendar operated in decimal measuresnote . Each year had 12 months divided into sets of three months to reflect the four seasons of Autumn (Vendémiaire,note  Brumaire,note  Frimaire,note ) Winter,v(Nivôse note  Pluviôse,note  Ventôse,note ) Spring, (Germinal,note  Floréal,note  Prairial,note ) and Summer (Messidor,note  Thermidor,note  Fructidornote ). There is a conversion table for contemporary dates into the French Calendar. The real problems with the use of the calendar aside from widespread cultural inertia with the Gregorian calendar, is that the new months while corresponding well, more or less, with the seasonal structure of France was not quite as appropriate to the colonies or parts of France where a Snowy Month (Nivôse) doesn't snow. During the Terror, the Gregorian calendar continued to be use in daily practice, and it was the Directory government that made serious efforts to enforce it facing opposition from workers who hated the number of holidays being reduced. The Calendar remains well known on account for the fact that some of the dates have become proverbial, namely 9 Thermidor(The Fall of Robespierre), and 18 Brumaire (The Rise of Napoleon).
It was during the Revolution that the Louvre Palace, already used as a warehouse for the Royal Art collection and a residency for artists patronized by the throne, became the Louvre Museum, opening it to the public and declaring it part of the cultural patrimony. Likewise the Royal Garden became the Jardin des Plantes, headed by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, who would eventually become a key pre-Darwin evolutionary theorist. That said some artists and scientists suffered during this time.note 
There were only seven prisoners in the Bastille when it was stormed, none of whom were political (the Marquis de Sade had been moved 10 days earlier). Besides, the goal of the rioters wasn't to free them but to get some weapons to defend themselves against royal troops. This event appears to have come about from rumours about said troops preparing a massacre of revolutionaries.
The Different governments of the Revolution were: The National Assembly (1789), The National Constituent Assembly (1789-1791), Legislative Assembly (1791-1792), National Convention (1792-1795), The Directory (1795-1799) and the Consulate (1799-1804).
Napoleon Bonaparte ended this when he took direct power. He was initially a co-conspirator of a liberal coup masterminded by Abbe Sieyes, but he hijacked the plot to strengthen his power. Bonaparte initially served as one of three Consuls in the Consulate before declaring himself The Emperor in December 1804 (marking the end of the First French Republic). During the Consulate, he ended Dechristianization, conducted a Concordat with the Catholic Church and oversaw the consolidation of many Revolutionary reforms with his Napoleonic Code (authored by Jean-Jacques-Régis de Cambacérès, a member of the National Convention).
See also,
The Enlightenment
The French Revolution — Major Figures
The French Revolution — Clubs and Factions
The French Revolution — Organizations
The Napoleonic Wars, the sequel,note  for lack of a better word.
French Political System, for all the bizarre things that have happened in France since then.
Tropes as depicted in fiction:
Aristocrats Are Evil: A very influential trope at the time and still present in pop-culture depictions, though usually overshadowed by disproportionate focus on Mob Violence.
Decided by One Vote: A very popular myth about Louis XVI's execution. Execution was in fact widely ahead, but if you add the "death with delaying conditions" to the opposing votes, it comes to this. It was a close run thing, out of 721 voters, 34 voted for death, by delay, 2 voted for life imprisonment in irons, 319 voted for imprisonment until the end of the war (to be followed by banishment). But a majority of 361 voted for death without conditions, among the people who voted was Philippe-Egalite, duc d'Orleans, the King's Cousin.
Eat the Rich: The Ur-Example for this Stock Phrase came about near this time when Jean-Jacques Rousseau reportedly said, "When the people shall have nothing more to eat, they will eat the rich". Anti-rich violence is a popular image of the Revolution and it is Truth in Television. One instance is the death of Foullon de Doué, referred to in A Tale of Two Cities. The finance minister was highly unpopular, hated by his own tax collectors and was rumoured to have said, "If those rascals have no bread, let them eat hay!" After 14 Juillet, he tried to flee to his country estate but the mob caught him, dragged him back to Paris at the Hotel de Ville and after several attempts to lynch him on a lamp-post beheaded him and stuffed his mouth with grass and paraded around Paris on a pike. On the same day, his son-in-law was killed and beheaded as well, and a creative mob decided to make him "Kiss Daddy" by pushing one head against the other.
Historical Domain Character: Marie Antoinette, Robespierre, and Napoleon spend so much time in fictions set in this period, one wonders how they managed to play their parts in history.
Historical Hero Upgrade: Quite a few characters get this:
The Revolt in the Vendée is often portrayed in a more romantic light by historians and novelists. They cite the large scale killings (130,000 but often inflated to 200,000) committed by the Republican side as an example of Revolutionary violence. In truth, the Republican response was driven by a massacre of Republican Vendeeans committed by Royalist Vendeeans when they killed 200 of them in Machecoul. The Vendean response by the Committee of Public Safety had considerable local support among Republican Vendeeans and peasants who were quite keen on the fact that the government was cutting down on the feudal privileges that the Royalists wanted to reinstate - namely giving out Church property to peasant landholders. One of France's greatest Prime Ministers Georges Clemenceau came from the Vendée and was descended from Republicans who had fought on the side of the Revolution. Undoubtedly there were atrocities committed by the Revolutionary side, but the Vendeeans' own atrocities and sparking the response is under-reported by comparison.
The Girondins in the Anglo-American media at least are regarded as more positive expressions of Revolution than the Jacobins, citing their moderate constitutional approach and their favoring provincial cities like Lyon and Bordeaux over a centralized Paris. What is usually glossed over is their corruption, their elitism, their laziness in pushing proper reforms and finally their belief in War for Fun and Profit in the name of "spreading the revolution", an action which unleashed 20 years of warfare across Europe.
Historical Villain Upgrade: Generally the extremists, whose actions saved France from invasion, ended up with the bad press:
Robespierre did some less than commendable things in the name of the Republic, but he was co-author of the Declaration of the Rights of Man, he advocated against the death penalty, even if he helped to turn the first into dead letter and reversed his position on the second. But he was involved in such causes as the abolition of slavery, eliminating the property qualification to be represented in government, and granting rights to Protestants and Jews. Tell that to some fictional portrayals. As per Alfred Cobban, "No one at the time of the Revolution went as far as Robespierre in stating what were later to be recognized as the essential conditions of the democratic state."
Jean-Paul Marat perhaps got it worse than anybody else from that period, and went from being an almost godlike figure whose bust replaced crosses in churches to be described as an "angry monster insatiably hungry for blood" after the Reign of Terror was pretty much done and finished. The actual Marat, while not personally attractive, was actually a mix between moderate and extreme and a consistent anti-war activist. His death deprived the sans-culottes and working-class agitators a competent and widely respected voice in government leading to demagogues like Hebert to represent them. The famous post-colonial poet Aimé Cesaire also pointed out that Marat was the only major Revolutionary who stated that France's colonies had the right to self-determination and independence from France, a position that put him way ahead of his time, something that even a consistent abolitionist like Robespierre was ambivalent about.
Louis Antoine de Saint-Just is often portrayed in fiction as a violent extremist who wanted anyone of noble birth, even the ones on his side, wiped off the face of the earth. Now, while he did actually say this, he did so in the final years of his life (during the height of the Reign of Terror when they started executing people left and right), and for the most of his life had pretty moderate views.
As the history of the French Revolution is a highly contentious and partisan issue, counter-revolutionary rebels such as those of the Vendée also got this, being portrayed as barely human, cruel, ignorant, religously fanatic peasants led by cruel and decadent aristocrats. Thus a number of historical paintings of the Third Republic showed this on a level approaching Gorn e. g. in the case of The Massacre of Machecoul◊ by Francois Flameng and The Death of Bara◊ by Jean-Joseph Weerts.
The monarchs and nations fighting against France during the Wars of the French Revolution (often after France declared war on them) also often are portrayed as utter reactionaries hell-bent on undoing every single political and social advance created by the Revolution (or to "turn back the clock to before 1789"), in effect ascribing the ideology of the most extreme royalist "ultras" to all of them.note  Some nationalistic historians also like to portray the war as if the very existence of France was at stake, while the monarchic governments in fact pursued widely divergent aims - which e. g. made Prussia and Spain drop out of the coalition in 1795 - and for the sake of the balance of power wanted to preserve France in its established position as a major European power.
Impoverished Patrician: A trope that is quite popular in fictional depictions. Some notable examples include:
Comte de Mirabeau, the original leader of the Revolution, he rebelled against aristocratic conventions, did time in Bastille for "libertinage" and ultimately even lost his privileges which made him highly empathetic to the common people and their plight. Because of his complex background he became a popular leader and middleman between the aristocrats who were to be gently coerced to losing their privileges and the angry Third Estate.
Marie-Josèphe-Rose Tascher de la Pagerie, the future Empress Josephine, also fell to hard times thanks to the Revolution by which her family fortune in Martinique was threatened. In order to hide her aristocratic origins, she apprenticed her son Eugène with a cabinet-maker. Her first husband Alexandre de Beauharnnais was guillotined on a false charge during the Terror which led to her being imprisoned before being released after Thermidor, after which she met Napoleon.
The notorious Marquis de Sade was writing the 120 Days of Sodom in the Bastille before being released two weeks before 14 July, 1789. During the revolution, he worked in the popular theaters and became a spokesman in the Radical Paris Section (City Ward) Piques (it was Robespierre's ward!). He was highly popular and well-liked by the sectionnaires and sans-culottes and became a committed radical, even writing a eulogy for Marat which compared him to Jesus. He faced problems when his son, fighting in the French Army, defected to the enemy and he also argued against the Terror which led to his imprisonment. After Thermidor, he was virtually penniless, being forced to sell his remaining estate and barely subsisting until Napoleon whimsically ordered his imprisonment to Charenton after reading Juliette.
The legendary Thomas Alexandre Davy de la Palettiere was the son of a French nobleman and a Haitian African slave. In France, he was raised with full privileges and education. During the Revolution, he fell out with his father and he took his mother's family name and called himself Thomas-Alexandre Dumas. He fell into hard times towards the end of the Revolutionary Wars and the Rise of Napoleon (they hated each other) and Dumas was unfairly stranded in an Italian prison for two years which badly affected his health. After his release, Napoleon refused to give him and his wife a pension and when he died, his wife had to raise her young son Alexandre Dumas in poor circumstances for which they blamed Napoleon.
In general, during the Revolution, a lot of money and property was transferred from the nobility and clergy to the bourgeosie and - to a lesser degree - the more well-to-do peasants, and a lot of shifts happened in the class structure. Napoleon and the Bourbon and July Monarchy restored some monarchical titles to good and bad effect but it was mostly In Name Only. In some cases, noblemen actually joined the sans-culottes and blended in and threw off their old life, hippie-style.
An example of the trickle-down effect: Famous Italian playwright Carlo Goldoni was living in Paris on a pension granted to him by Louis XVI. This was stopped because of the Revolution, and Goldoni died in abject poverty on 6 February 1793 - a day before the National Convention voted to restore the pension, which they had to turn into one for Goldoni's widow.
Nice Hat: Of course, the 18th century was an age of Nice Hats, but the Revolution has its own hat specifically associated with it: the bonnet rouge, a red Phrygian cap with a tricolor cockade.
Reign of Terror: The Trope Namer. Mark Twain reflected on the disproportionate focus on the Terror and the association of it with the Revolution a hundred years later:
"If we really think about it, there were two Reigns of Terror; in one people were murdered in hot and passionate violence; in the other they died because people were heartless and did not care. One Reign of Terror lasted a few months; the other had lasted for a thousand years; one killed a thousand people note , the other killed a hundred million people. However, we only feel horror at the French Revolution's Reign of Terror. But how bad is a quick execution, if you compare it to the slow misery of living and dying with hunger, cold, insult, cruelty and heartbreak? A city cemetery is big enough to contain all the bodies from that short Reign of Terror, but the whole country of France isn't big enough to hold the bodies from the other terror. We are taught to think of that short Terror as a truly dreadful thing that should never have happened: but none of us are taught to recognize the other terror as the real terror and to feel pity for those people."
The Revolution Will Not Be Civilized: The overwhelming conservative opinion. It's also how the French Revolution is usually portrayed in fictions, especially anglophone anti-revolutionary popular culture, enshrined in works like A Tale of Two Cities which greatly shaped the collective imagination, focusing disproportionately on Mob Violence. Historians however, differ on why it wasn't civilized.
Romanticism Versus Enlightenment: The French Revolution is usually seen as the event that marked the two eras decisively with Romanticism largely being a reaction to the event. Romanticism itself was divided between hostility and enthusiasm for the French Revolution. A good example is Victor Hugo who was critical and dismissive of the Revolution but later came to embrace it.
Early Romantic poets such as Wordsworth and Coleridge were initially supportive before becoming disillusioned. Early Romanticist writings across Europe (but especially in England and Germany) and even in France, were prone to nostalgia for the Ancien Regime and the centuries long tradition that the Revolution was radically upsetting. They also saw the Terror as a new form of Intellectually Supported Tyranny and the dangers of cold, excessive, rationalism which tended to clamp down on the individual.
Later Romantics such as Percy Shelley, John Keats and Lord Byron who were liberal-leftist felt that the Revolution brought the spirit of change in Europe. They felt that poets and poetry should also be revolutionary, that artists could and should change society with art, a central belief in romantic literature. Some Romantic composers such as Beethoven were initially pro-Revolutionary but turned bitter when Napoleon became Emperor, i.e. a king with a different name. Some other Romantics, even liberals, saw Napoleon as the Romantic Hero, a badass who by sheer merit and talent, recognized and rewarded by the Revolution, brought modernity to Europe by radically upsetting ideas of aristocracy and monarchy. His youth and good looks, made him closer to a Byronic Hero than Byron himself.
Shrouded in Myth: Quite a lot about the French Revolution became the stuff of legend, both positive and negative.
The storming of the Bastille and the "battle" of Valmy were much smaller-scale and in significant respects less heroic affairs than they are generally portrayed in the popular image.
Robespierre personal papers were burnt by the government after Thermidor. Consequently, we only know him through his speeches, letters and other people's testimonies. This partly explains the contradictory views about him, since we have no way to know him "from the inside".
Marie Grosholtz, a wax-maker later became an exile to England, remarried and became Madame Marie Tussaud. During the Revolution, she was briefly imprisoned (sharing a cell with Josephine de Beauharnais) but was spared by Collot d'Herbois. In exchange, according to her, she made death masks of famous victims. In London, Madame Tussaud's wax exhibitions were highly popular and endures to this day. However, historias have generally regarded most, if not all, her "death masks" as fakes, which doesn't stop semi-serious scholars from using them as a source to reconstruct appearances of historical figures.
On the side of the counter-revolution, during the Restoration a number of myths were formed to glorify Jean Chouan as a martyr for the rebellion in Mayenne and Brittany. The real Chouan was called Jean Cottereau and he was a smuggler and suspected murderer who rose against the Republic because they were clamping down on his illegal businesses. The restoration transformed him into a reactionary fantasy of a Robin Hood who rose against an "unlawful" republic while living in the forest with his merry men.note 
During the Restoration, a number of Urban Legend about the Revolution caught life, such as the idea that Louis XVI was executed because of a single vote majority (which helped the royalist propaganda that the King was an innocent done in by an evil cabal), that Revolutionaries converted Royalists into Genuine Human Hide and used the leather to bind books which shows up in some Revolutionary-era fiction like Explosion of a Cathedral and Assassin's Creed Unity. In addition there were tropes like Victims Balls where aristocratic women wore mourning clothes and red sashes around their necks as a symbol of the guillotine they narrowly avoided.note  None of this ever really happened, and there is no evidence to support any of it.
Both pro-and-anti-revolutionaries see the Parisian mob as uneducated illiterate uninformed rabble. Anti-revolutionaries see this as an example of anarchy and grubby peasants trying to attain rights they don't merit (as per Edmund Burke and Thomas Carlyle), while pro-revolutionaries, Marxists mainly, saw this as an example of the proletariat casting off their chains of oppression and attacking aristocrats. In actual fact, Paris had an entirely literate male population on the eve of the Revolution, they were schooled and aware of ideas by Rousseau and Voltaire as a result of pirated books which proliferated under the guise of poronography. Likewise, the so-called sans-culottes far from being "proletarians" were more accurately a Ragtag Bunch of Misfits comprising of lower-middle class shopkeepers, out of work actors and even some aristocrats who saw the fashion as "hippie lifestyle" avant-la-lettre. Some sans-cullotes were themselves property owners and employers who would agitate on the street, and then go back to his shop and boss his workers aroundnote who on account of Le loi chapelier had no right to form an Union, this law remained in effect until the 1848 Revolution.
Works that are set in this time period are:
Anime & Manga
The Rose of Versailles takes place in the last years of the Ancien Régime and ends on the dawn of the Revolution in 1789.
Le Chevalier d'Eon
Innocent
Art and Architecture
Much of the work of Jacques-Louis David, an active participant in the revolution who produced official propaganda paintings and private portraits of many of the "celebrities" of his day. Particularly well-known are the iconic Marat assassiné and his quick sketch of Marie-Antoinette just before her execution. His massive Serment du jeu de paume (1791) to commemorate the Tennis Court Oath of 1789 was never finished, in part because many of the politicians on it fell into disgrace and were guillotined.
The revolution was rediscovered in a big way by historical painters during the Third Republic, which often invoked its memory.
The Arc de Triomphe, or to give it its full name: the Arc de triomphe de l'Etoile in Paris commemorates the Wars of the French Revolution as well as the Napoleonic Wars. Of special note is the group of figures "The Depart of the Volunteers of 1792" by Francois Rude.
The Panthéon was set up as a burial place for "the great men" of France during the Revolution. Inside several groups of figures were added during the Third Republic, including "The Battle of Valmy", Le Vengeur, "The National Convention", and "The generals of the Revolution", as well as a painted tryptich Vers la gloire by Edouard Detaille in honour of the armies of the revolution.
Comic Books
Batman: Reign of Terror: An Elseworlds story set during the French Revolution with Bruce Wayne as a French nobleman who becomes a masked crimefighter carrying convicted innocents out of France, a la The Scarlet Pimpernel.
The Sandman story "Thermidor" is a dark tale set in the aftermath of the French Revolution.
The Sky over the Louvre, by French bande-dessinee artist Bernar Yslaire and famous screenwriter Jean-Claude Carriere (who also wrote the famous film Danton). Commissioned by the Louvre itself, this comic explores the founding of the museum during the Revolution through the Odd Friendship between Robespierre and painter Jacques-Louis David.
Fan Works
Axis Powers Hetalia Dark Fic involving France tend to use this as the backdrop.
Films — Live-Action
Start the Revolution Without Me
La Marseillaise (Jean Renoir film). 1938 film which chronicles the early years from Bastille to the Storming of Tuileries and ending at the Battle of Valmy. Features costumes by Coco Chanel, a shadow theatre scene by exiled German animation pioneer Lotte Reiniger and amazing battle scenes. The linking thread is the development and Memetic Mutation of the song that would become France's National Anthem in a fictionalized portrayal of the volunteer battalion from Marseilles that brought it to Paris.
Reign of Terror/The Black Book a 1949 B-Movie done in a Film Noir style. The reign is used as a stand-in for the Red Scare during The Hollywood Blacklist and features an impressive lack of historical accuracy of any kind.
Danton (1983), directed by Andrzej Wajda and starring Gérard Depardieu as Danton in the face-off with Robespierre. It is based on the play "The Danton Case" by Stanislawa Przybyszewska which Wajda had alread produced on stage in Warsaw in 1975. The film was originally commissioned by the Mitterand government, but Wajda presented a much too dark image of the year 1794 for their liking, likening Paris during the Terror with Poland during the repression of the Solidarity movement.
Napoléon (1927), a huge French silent movie directed by Abel Gance, who himself appears in the film as Saint-Just. As Napoleon is the hero, he gets inserted into scenes not based on history, such as the already completely inaccurate scene of the first performance of the Marseillaise in Paris which finishes with captain Bonaparte shaking Rouget de Lisles's hand and congratulating him for his good work for the republic.
Marie Antoinette
The French Revolution (1989 movie, Robert Enrico). The film was produced for the 200th anniversary of the French Revolution. Noteworthy for being surprisingly neutral in regards to the events.
Orphans of the Storm (though the original novel which was adapted was not set in this time period)
The Affair of the Necklace about a scandal involving Marie Antoinette. Pre-revolution, but helped to lower her reputation in the eyes of the public.
Scaramouche (1923)
Scaramouche (1952)
Stay Tuned: The protagonist fall into this setting on one of the channels.
Les Belles de nuit (1952), a René Clair comedy starring Gérard Philipe as a music teacher going back in time in his dreams, also stops during the French Revolution.
Jefferson in Paris, a biopic of Thomas Jefferson during his time as Ambassador in France, showing the events leading up to the French Revolution.
Brotherhood of the Wolf, at the beginning.
The Lady and the Duke, a French film by Eric Rohmer, starring Lucy Russell and Jean-Louis Dreyfuss showing the events from the perspective of Philippe Egalite, Duc d'Orleans and his mistress Grace Elliott.
Farewell, My Queen a 2012 French film starring Diane Kruger as Marie Antoinette. It explores Versailles in the first three days of the Revolution.
La Nuit de Varennes ("The Night of Varennes"), a film by Ettore Scola which tells the story of the Flight to Varennes and the early phase of the French Revolution as seen through the eyes of the passengers of a stage coach that happens to follow on the tracks of the royal family's coach. The passengers mixes fictional characters such as a lady of Marie-Antoinette's court (Hanna Schygulla) with real-life writers Rétif de la Bretonne (Jean-Louis Barrault), Thomas Paine (Harvey Keitel), and Giacomo Casanova (Marcello Mastroianni).
The Married Couple of the Year Two, a comedy starring Jean-Paul Belmondo as a man who returns to Nantes during the Terror to get a divorce from his estranged wife and gets between the fronts of various revolutionary and royalist factions. One of the few movies involving the Revolution that does not contain a single scene set in Paris.
Chouans!, a 1988 film by Philippe de Broca, tells the story of an aristocratic family in Brittany torn asunder between its royalist and republican members.
History of the World Part I lampoons many of the clichés about the French Revolution in the relevant section.
Les Visiteurs. The knight Godefroy of Montmirail and his squire Jacquouille have been sent to this era by mistake at the end of the second film, The Corridors of Time. The third film, The Revolution, deals with their fate as they are stranded during this era.
Literature
A Tale of Two Cities
The Scarlet Pimpernel
Scaramouche, subtitled "A Romance of the French Revolution", begins just before the calling of the States General and climaxes against the backdrop of the Storming of the Tuileries. The protagonist mostly tries to stay out of it, but still gets involved in several key events along the way and serves for a while as a delegate to the National Assembly, less because he has believes in the ideals of the reformers and more because he has beef against one corrupt aristocrat in particular.
The Pink Carnation series.
A Place Of Greater Safety by Hilary Mantel chronicles the Revolutionary from the perspective of the early friendship between Camille Desmoulins, Georges Danton and Maximilien Robespierre.
Honor Harrington takes place in the Napoleonic Wars IN SPACE! and thus has the entire plot in the background.
Alexandre Dumas wrote a number of novels set in the era:
Mémoires d'un médecin ("Memoirs of a Physician", but also known as the Marie-Antoinette series) is a tetralogy dealing with the years leading to, and during the Revolution. The first book, Joseph Balsamo famously featured a secret society who meet in a mountain and promise to usher in the Revolution. It is followed by The Queen's Necklace, Ange Pitou (also known as "The Storming of the Bastille"), and La Comtesse de Charny. The story is then continued in Le Chevalier de Maison-Rouge. In order to show the amount of research he put into his novels, Dumas also did a non-fiction book with the account of how he retraced the Flight to Varennes, discovering errors in famous historians' accounts and interviewing the few surviving eye-witnesses he could still find in the region.
Blanche de Beaulieu is a love story between General Marceau and a young aristocrat against the backdrop of the war in the Vendée. The author's father, revolutionary General Thomas-Alexandre Dumas, also makes an appearance.
The Woman with the Velvet Necklace, takes place during the Terror. In reference to Moral Event Horizon, it mentions the execution of King Louis as "the single most important event in human history to date."
Alexandre Dumas finally wrote a trilogy of novels about royalist conspirators during the Revolution and Napoleonic Wars: Les Blancs et les Bleus, Les Compagnons de Jéhu (adapted into a French television series in 1966) and Le Chevalier de Saint-Hermine. The last one was left unfinished and was only rediscovered in 1990; in 2005 it became a bestseller in France.
Honoré de Balzac wrote the novel Les Chouans about royalist underground fighters in Brittany. It was adapted into a movie in 1947.
Italo Calvino's surrealist novella The Baron in the Trees deals with the influence of The Enlightenment and the finale features the Italian campaign of the French Revolutionary Wars and Napoleon's retreat. Voltaire and Napoléon Bonaparte appear in the book.
Victor Hugo while initially conservative and skeptical about the Revolution came to see it as an essential fact of the modern world:
Les Misérables, though not actually set during the French Revolution, makes constant references to it (though the July Revolution was highly inspired by the Revolution as well); the revolutionary Enjolras is based on Louis Antoine de Saint-Just.
Ninety-Three his final novel is set during the Reign of Terror. Though it was actually inspired by Hugo's experiences during the Paris Commune.
A significant part of TheRedLion.
The Way to the Lantern
French writer Anatole France's The Gods Are Athirst explores the Terror from the perspective of a Robespierre fanatic.
Alejo Carpentier, the Cuban author wrote two classics about the impact of the French Revolution on Latin America.
The Kingdom of This World deals with the Haitian Revolution.
Explosion in a Cathedral note  deals with Victor Hugues, an obscure Revolutionary, who brought the Emancipation Decree of 1794 to the former slave-run sugar-owning colonies and started several Slave Liberation(s) in the Caribbean.
Heinrich von Kleist's novella The Betrothal in St. Domingo is set during the revolution in Haiti. His essay On the Gradual Production of Thoughts whilst Speaking uses Mirabeau's famous answer to the royal order to dissolve the Estates General as a prime example.
Stefan Zweig's series of historical miniatures Sternstunden der Menschheit includes the posthumously added story "Das Genie einer Nacht" ("The genius of a night") about the writing of the Marseillaise by Rouget de Lisle.
The earlier timeline in The Eight by Katherine Neville focuses mainly on original characters, but notably features Talleyrand, David, and the Bonaparte family.
The Runaway Queen, one of the short stories from The Bane Chronicles takes place in this period. The storie follows the warlock Magnus Bane who gets hired by Count Alex von Fersen to save queen Marie Antoinette.
Live-Action TV
Blackadder the Third (for one episode)
Doctor Who: "The Reign of Terror"
The Time Tunnel episode "Reign of Terror".
Horatio Hornblower: Episode "The Wrong War" (aka "The Frogs and the Lobsters") deals with a civil war between the Royalists and the Revolutionaries.
Die Jagd nach dem Urmeter/Un mètre pour mesurer le monde (The hunt for the first meter/One meter to measure the world), a very well made German documentary about the difficult birth of the Metric system, especially the meter.
Napoléon is a four-parts miniseries covering the life of Napoléon Bonaparte. The first episode is mostlty set during the Directory eranote  and the events depicted include 13 Vendémiaire revolt, the Italy and Egypt campaigns, and the 1799 coup.
Podcasts
The third season of Revolutions by Mike Duncan is a history of the French Revolution. It is engrossing and highly detailed for a non-academic history, and (thus far) by far the longest season of the podcast, clocking in at 54 approximately half-hour episodes, plus a few supplemental episodes, for what is about 27 hours of material on the subject. (It is, however, likely to be surpassed by the tenth and final season on the Russian Revolutions, although that's slightly cheating since that season is covering the 1905 Revolution and both 1917 Revolutions; that being said, it already had 35 episodes by the time Duncan reached the end of 1905, and Duncan has stated his intent to end the Russian Revolution with the ascent of Stalin.) The French Revolution is also discussed in Season 4 when Duncan deals with the Haitian Revolution (Haiti starting out as a French colony with the vast majority of its population slaves) and the early episodes of Season 5 (about Simón Bolívar) naturally mention how events in Europe (mostly France and Spain) influenced Spanish America.
Music
Voltaire's song "The Headless Waltz"
Allan Sherman's song "You Went the Wrong Way Old King Louis"
"Bastille Day" by Rush
Roger Waters' opera, Ca Ira, with some deliberate allegories to America in the mid-2000's.
Queen's "Killer Queen" namechecks Marie Antoinette and the "let them eat cake" misquote in its opening lyrics.
Tabletop Games
Guillotine is a Wizards of the Coast card game in which every plays a rival executioner during the French Revolution and takes turns guillotining prisoners. Players compete by manipulating the line to claim the highest-value heads.
Theater
Danton's Death (play by Georg Büchner)
Marat/Sade by Peter Weiss
Andrea Chenier, an opera by Umberto Giordano based on the life and death of the poet André Chénier.
Dialogues of the Carmelites, an opera about the "Compiègne Martyrs", 16 nuns who were guillotined in 1794. Written by Francis Poulenc based on a screenplay by Georges Bernanos based on the novella The Last on the Scaffold by Gertrud von Le Fort.
Video Games
Assassin's Creed: Unity
We the Revolution puts the player in the skin of a Revolutionary Tribunal judge who does his duty both on mundane everyday cases for the common folk and on bigger affairs that had much attention during the era.
Web Comics
Bite Me!, or A Vampire Farce.
Hark! A Vagrant: "Yoo hoo, does this pike make me look fat?"
Web Original
Look to the West features an Alternate History version.
Season 3 of Mike Duncan's nonfiction podcast Revolutions is a highly detailed history of the French Revolution.
Western Animation
The Histeria! episode, titled, well, "The French Revolution"

Useful Notes / The Space Race
"Earth is the cradle of humanity, but one cannot live in the cradle forever."
— Konstantin Tsiolkovsky
(Not to be confused with races of creatures that live in space.)
The Cold War... IN SPACE!
Forget the Moon, Just Hit the Eastern Hemisphere
"Once the rockets are up, who cares where they come down?
"That's not my department," says Wernher von Braun.
— Tom Lehrer, "Wernher von Braun", That Was the Year That Was
The start of the Space Race actually dates back to the 1930s. The Versailles Treaty having banned them from research on cannons, the German Army instead began experimenting with the use of rocket-propelled artillery. Many prominent scientists (most eminently Wernher von Braun) were accordingly recruited into large-scale rocket development in 1932. It was the work of these scientists during World War II which eventually led to the creation of the V1 "buzz bomb" (a precursor to the modern cruise missile), and later the infamous V2 rocket. The V2, first successfully launched in 1942, became the first man-made object to make it out of Earth's atmosphere. Soon after, it was fitted with a payload of high-explosives and fired at London and other Allied targets, becoming the world's first practical ballistic missile as well.
With the end of WWII, the vast majority of these German scientists ended up in the USA regardless of their War Crimes note . The Soviets also attempted to capture German scientists, but were largely unsuccessful and had to console themselves with some of the V2 test sites and factories. The Americans ended up with von Braun and most of his research staff and vital papers, having spirited them and all other useful scientific personnel away from Europe under the OSS's "Operation Paperclip" (it didn't hurt that the team was so terrified of the Soviets that in the last days of the war von Braun falsified orders to get them closer to the Western Allies). Paperclip also claimed Werner Heisenberg and most of the personnel from Nazi Germany's fractured nuclear programmes .
Operation Osoaviakhim (the NKGB analogue to Paperclip) wound up with mostly mid-level engineers and technicians, and a large amount of parts and manufacturing equipment from the manufacturing bases (which mostly ended up in the Soviet sector of Germany). Native rocket researcher and former gulag resident Sergey Korolyov (Sergei Korolev) was selected note  to turn the massive influx of workers and material into an independent Soviet military rocket program. The USSR was characteristically paranoid about Korolev's identity; he was referred to only as the "Chief Designer" to shield him from US espionage. Even some of his own cosmonauts were unaware of his name prior to his death in 1966.
The immediate goal of both sides was not space exploration, but rather the development of better Ballistic Missiles. The US wanted to do this as a means of bombarding Soviet cities, and the Soviets wanted their own for use as a form of ultra long-range artillery for use in support of military operations. In the long term the US was also considering using them for delivering nuclear weapons to the Soviet Union, and while the Soviets entertained similar thoughts they had yet to actually develop nuclear weapons. In any event, military demands were put ahead of any dreams anyone yet had about Moon-shots. For almost a decade, no serious attempt was made for any peaceful use of space vehicles as both sides focused on improving the range, accuracy, and warhead size of rockets.
But by the mid-1950s, the latest rockets were verging on 'intercontinental' range and were beginning to skirt through the upper atmosphere or even Outer Space as a way of increasing their range. This is because air-resistance is, respectively, lesser and non-existent in those areas. Rockets capable of putting a nuclear warhead into space for a brief period could also be repurposed to put up a man-made satellite, and this would be a PR bonanza to whichever side in the emerging Cold War could accomplish it first.
The Eisenhower Administration announced the U.S. desire to launch such a satellite on July 29th of 1955, with the Soviet Union following 4 days later. The Space Race was on.
The Race to... Low Earth Orbit
Beep...beep...beep...beep...
—Sputnik 1
On October 4th, 1957, the Soviets won the first round. A modified R-7 Semyorka/SS-6 "Sapwood" ICBM launched a silver ball into orbit. All it really did was go "beep" on the radio, note  but it made the American government beep too. Not only had they lost the first leg of the Space Race, but it had come completely as a surprise and made the US realize it was actually somewhat behind with missile technologynote . With Sputnik 1 ("satellite", also translated as "sojourner", or "fellow traveler"—you've got to like the simplicity of Russian spacecraft names), the USSR had also shown the capacity to drop a nuke anywhere on the planet.
The propaganda coup for the Soviets only got better when the hastily-prepared US answer to Sputnik, a small satellite designated TV3 fitted to the Naval Research Laboratory's experimental new Vanguard rocket, blew up on the launch pad after only rising 4 feet into the air. TV3 itself was thrown clear during the explosion and began to mockingly transmit its signals while lying on the ground note . The press ridiculed the failure as "Flopnik", "Kaputnik" and "Stay-Putnik". Von Braun and the US Army had actually been further ahead in rocket research at the time, but the task for the first American satellite launch fell to the Navy due to political fears that using the Army's designs and hardware in a highly-publicized launch would be a security risk and be seen as "militarizing" the space race. Von Braun himself was furious at the decision, correctly predicting it would be a failure. Indeed, of the 11 total Vanguard launches attempted in the following months, only 3 didn't fail. note 
The Soviets quickly followed Sputnik up with Sputnik 2, carrying a dog named Laika (Russian for "barker", again, gotta love the simplicity). It was never intended to bring her back alive, and Laika died from overheating and stress five to seven hours after launch (a fact not revealed to the West for over forty years; before then, the official word from Moscow was that she had been euthanized when scientists realized she couldn't be brought back safely). Over the next three years, more Sputnik tests would be launched, growing in complexity in both the scientific apparatuses and living passengers they carried. With Sputnik 5, they sent up two dogs, 40 mice, two rats and some plants, bringing them all back safely. By the end of the series, the crude metal ball of Sputnik 1 would evolve into the more elaborate Vostok capsule, capable of carrying a live human into space.
Meanwhile, the US had finally gotten their first satellite into orbit in January of 1958. Explorer 1—the product of von Braun's collaboration with the Army—discovered the Van Allen radiation belts surrounding Earth note  and gathered other scientific data for a three month period until its batteries ran out. Even dead, it managed to stay in orbit around the Earth for another 12 years, finally reentering the atmosphere in 1970.
With this experience gained, it was on to the next step, putting a live human into space (and hopefully bringing them back alive).
The Race to Manned Spaceflight
Let's go!
—Yuri Gagarin, on the launch of Vostok 1
Towards this end the US conducted the Mercury program, a cramped capsule barely big enough for a single person put into orbit by one of several proven rockets in the US missile arsenal. The program started in 1959 with a series of unmanned test launches that eventually graduated to launching a monkey and a chimpanzee as precursors to putting a man in orbit. On May 5th, 1961, Alan Shepard became America's first real astronaut, riding a Mercury capsule dubbed "Freedom 7" into space for a brief 17-minute suborbital flight. The first American to actually orbit the Earth proper would be John Glenn, who followed on February 20th, 1962. His "Friendship 7" capsule made three Earth orbits before landing successfully.
The Mercury program conducted several more manned flights and was a source of valuable experience, but one thing it did not accomplish, was doing it first.
On April 12, 1961, one month before Shepard's flight, cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin was launched into space aboard a Vostok capsule. He made one Earth orbit, re-entered, and then parachuted out of his capsule to the ground. Once again, the Soviets had come out ahead.
Like Project Mercury, the Vostok series of flights would also be a valuable learning tool for spaceflight. Six total launches would occur from 1961 to 1963 which would set other space "firsts", including the first simultaneous orbiting of two separate spacecraft (Vostok 3 and 4) and the first woman in space (also the first civilian in space), Valentina Tereshkova (Vostok 6).
Unlike Mercury, however, the Vostok missions required the cosmonaut to bail out prior to landing. The G-forces involved in riding the capsule all the way to the rough ground landing had been deemed too risky. In this regard, Mercury was the first spacecraft that allowed its pilot to remain inside for the duration of the flight, but again Soviet secrecy hid this fact for many years (as it would disallow their claiming international altitude records, which require the pilot to land in his craft).
Also hidden by the Soviets was the worst disaster of the Space Race era. On October 24th, 1960, a Soviet R-16 rocket being prepped for a test launch exploded on the launch pad when the second stage engines ignited prematurely, detonating the first stage like a bomb. The massive ensuing fire killed between 80 to 120 workers and ground personnel, most notably Marshal Mitrofan Nedelin, head of the military branch of Soviet rocket programs. He was announced to have died in an airplane crash, and the disaster would not be revealed publicly until the 1980s. To this day, no activity at all is conducted on October 24th out of respect.
Bang! Zoom! To da Moon, Alice!
That's one small step for (a) man... One giant leap for mankind.
—Neil Armstrong
In 1961, President John F. Kennedy had announced his vision of a US lunar landing by the end of the decade (1969). Since then, the Moon had been the ultimate goal in the Space Race. Now with the success of Mercury behind them, the US got serious in making this a reality. It was soon realized that there would be a lot of complex tasks involved when it came to landing men on the Moon; there were questions of orbital docking and navigation, flights with multiple crew, extravehicular activities (EVAs, otherwise known as "spacewalks") etc., and so NASA embarked on the Gemini program to explore these areas. Gemini involved a larger, two-man capsule (although it was very small and uncomfortable for the astronauts) put into orbit on top of a Titan booster. There were 10 manned Gemini missions in 1965 and 1966, gaining valuable experience. This ultimately would lead to the Apollo program, with the sole intent of putting men on the Moon. Apollo would also require a new three-man capsule, a lunar-landing craft and construction of the largest rocket ever built to launch them, the famous Saturn V.
In 1963, Kennedy proposed a joint American-Soviet moon mission. Khrushchev rejected it almost immediately, but quietly thought about it further. The rapport developed between the two men eventually lead to the Soviet Premier preparing to accept the offer. But Kennedy was soon assassinated before the announcement could be made. Succeeding President Lyndon Johnson's distrust of the Soviets made any prospect of a joint mission impossible.
Even without international cooperation, the Soviets pressed on. Once the Vostok series was done, they modified (barely, because Soviet leadership ordered that the project be rushed to make the record for first multi-manned space mission, leading to a haphazard spacecraft that was a dead end for the design of a moon landing mission) the capsule into a two-crew note  version, the Voskhod series. They also performed the first spacewalk, again, ahead of the Americans. But as Cracked mentions, this came at the cost of many important features, as the Voskhod was very similar to the Vostok in design to save time, and thus to fit 3 crew, the crewmembers were forced to go anorexic and not wear spacesuits; while the first EVA nearly killed the participant (Alexei Leonov) with the bends; and the subtle design changes to fit more than one crew member made the instruments hard to access, causing Voskhod 2 to land 386 km off course. Additionally, spaceflight endurance was something the Soviets stagnated on, with Vostok 5 reaching only half of its 8-day endurance assignment, while America reached the 8 day endurance required for a moon mission in 1965 with Gemini 5 and Gemini 7 stayed in space for almost 14 days, while the 8 day requirement was only reached by the Soviets with Soyuz 9 in 1970. Around this time the Soviets also managed to get the first unmanned probe to actually land on the moon (Luna 9 in 1966). note  Later, they landed a spacecraft with a remote-controlled moon rover (the Lunokhod series—the first robotic rovers ever used for exploring other worlds) and also launched three successful sample-and-return missions. note  Despite these successes, their actual manned Moon program was beset by various problems virtually from the start.
First, Sergei Korolev fell somewhat afoul of the new Soviet government—he had been Khrushchev's darling, and after the latter got himself ousted in 1964, it meant a lot more Executive Meddling and a lot less funding: the Soviet Moon program had barely one-fifth of the purchase-power of the American program's budget. Then, Korolev famously feuded with leading rocket engine designer at the time, Valentin Glushko, note  leading to the selection of Nikolai Kuznetsov as the engine designer. Kuznetsov had built only jet engines before, and couldn't supply anything like the Saturn V's Enormous Engines, so he went for an "a lot of mid-sized ones" approach. The Soviet Moon launcher, the N1, had a staggeringly thirty engines clustered on its first stage. This complex engine array had an enormous labyrinthine plumbing system, which couldn't be tested before the rocket's launch, so it was plagued by a number of unknown bugs and resonance modes. note  In all, four unmanned test launches of the N1 were attempted, all resulting in mid-flight explosions (including one that stalled during launch, fell back onto the pad, and flattened the launch complex in one of the largest non-nuclear explosions ever made by human beings). In 1966, in the middle of the N1 debacle, Korolev himself unexpectedly died of complications after pretty routine heart surgery (his time in the Gulag had left him with a variety of health weaknesses). While finances and political motivations in seriously reaching the moon were the prime factors to the Soviet's failure to land a man on the moon, Korolev's death left a vacuum in the technical leadership position of the Soviet program that proved impossible to fill.
In 1967, the US Apollo missions began. The very first, Apollo 1, ended in disaster when a fire broke out in the capsule during a ground test. The "Block 1" Command Modules were rife with design problems, including faulty wiring. Nominally everything was fireproof, but the capsule used a pure-oxygen atmosphere at greater than sea-level pressure to simulate the vacuum of space, soaking the internal materials and turning them super-combustible. The three astronauts (Mercury veteran Virgil "Gus" Grissom, Edward White—who had made the first US spacewalk—and space rookie Roger B. Chaffee) all died in the capsule due to smoke inhalation. One of the reasons was that the hatch wouldn't open (it opened inward, which meant that the increased pressure held it shut) and couldn't be blown off by explosive bolts in an emergency (as the flames spread in the capsule, the astronauts attempted to unbolt it from its mountings). Ironically, Grissom himself was responsible for this feature. During his Mercury flight, there had been problems with the hatch. His capsule was lost in the Atlantic and he nearly drowned when the hatch prematurely blew open while it was still in the water. Thus, a "safer" version had been installed on Apollo 1. The problems were quickly rectified, however.
The Soviets also experienced disaster in their efforts the same year. On April 24th, 1967, cosmonaut Vladimir Komarov launched on the maiden flight of the new Soyuz spacecraft. Like Apollo, it was large enough to hold a crew of three with the intention of making it to the Moon by the end of the decade. Also, like Apollo, it was untested and beset by bugs that would cause things to go horribly wrong. A series of serious malfunctions forced Komarov to abandon the flight and attempt an emergency re-entry, which turned into a fatal crash when his parachutes failed to deploy. The disaster put the Soviet program on hold while flaws with the craft were worked out. Though these problems were quickly solved, continuing problems with the N1 meant that the Soyuz still did not have a reliable launcher to get it Moon-bound, an appropriate symmetry to the US's early rocket failures that had put it initially so far behind in the Race.
Meanwhile, the Americans were back on track with their Apollo program. A series of unmanned test flights of various bits of lunar hardware culminated in December of 1968 with the Apollo 8 lunar flyby. With 1969 came the first manned test of the Lunar Module (Apollo 9) and a "dress rehearsal" of the lunar landing (Apollo 10), completing everything but actually putting a man on the surface. That final step came on the next mission, when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin got to walk on the lunar surface in the Mare Tranquillitatis on July 20th, 1969.
After Apollo 11, six more manned US moon landings would be attempted. Apollo 13 famously had to abort mid-flight when an oxygen tank ruptured, forcing an emergency return. Although it was considered a "successful failure," it still was celebrated as a shining moment of NASA's indomitable ingenuity in the face of crisis, which was dramatically depicted in the film of the same name. Apollo missions 12 and 14–17 were all successful. The last three Apollo missions, 18–20, were canceled under budgetary pressure and their resources diverted to other space projects. The Apollo 17 mission of 1972 was the last time to date that man has walked on the Moon.
The American success effectively ended the Soviet effort. Ironically, by that time the Soviets basically had everything needed to make a successful Moon landing (including a one-person lander that was tested in Earth orbit) except for the booster. The flight could have been possible if they decided to launch the various parts of the spacecraft separately and assemble them in orbit.note  But with Korolev's loss, and lacking funds, no one had enough clout to insist. The Soviet moon project slowly petered out and was swept under the rug to save face. The N1 rocket program itself was canceled in 1976.
Burying the Sickle (and Hatchet)
May our joint work in space serve for the benefit of all countries and peoples on the Earth.
—Thomas P. Stafford to Alexei Leonov after the successful docking of the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project
In 1975, one of the Apollo Command Modules docked with a Russian Soyuz capsule, and the astronauts shook hands and shared food. This was seen as the official end of the Space Race, and the beginning of a new era of cooperation in space. But "era of cooperation" doesn't have a cool rhyme.
In reality, this had been coming for some time. After Kennedy's death, NASA had continued to encourage the Soviets to join the U.S. in a manned space venture, as noted in this book about the ASTP project. Among many gestures by the U.S. came an insightful idea to relate the story of the film Marooned to the Soviets, who were amazed that one of the heroes of the film was a Soviet cosmonaut that helped save an American crew stranded in space.
It would also be a last "hurrah" for Apollo. Within a few years, the United States became the first to employ a new kind of largely reusable spacecraft—the famous shuttles of the Space Transportation System—which became a workhorse for the American space program for the next 30-some years. This technology of unrivaled complexity was impressive, but it came with a price. Thanks to budget limitations in design and poor considerations to the reality that "space is hard", two shuttles were lost during the life of the program. The booster failure of shuttle Challenger, shortly after lift-off on January 28, 1986 (nineteen years and a day after the 1967 Apollo 1 fire), and shuttle Columbia's disintegration during re-entry on February 3, 2003, were the single worst in-flight space disasters of any nation.
It also proved Awesome, but Impractical in that almost all of its goals turned out to be much more easily (and cheaply) met by expendable unmanned boosters. The STS program initially aimed to achieve a significant economy of scale, utilizing a fully reusable vehicle that could be launched about once a week, but the budget cuts and technical problems led to a severe scaling down of the project and resulted in only a partially reusable vehicle whose after-flight "maintenance" basically amounted to disassembling it and building a new one from the resulting parts, which usually took about a half of the year (so long, weekly launches). The only tasks for which the shuttle was actually preferable to unmanned rockets were ones that took advantage of its unique abilities, such as servicing space stations and repairing satellites in orbit.
The Soviets developed their own reusable spacecraft, the Buran Shuttle. In appearance, it was a virtual copy of the American orbiter, but only managed a single unmanned test flight in 1988 before the program was crippled by the collapse of the Soviet Union itself. Even if it was a very promising platform, actually superior to the American space shuttle, note  it fell victim to a general feeling that such expensive toys were unwise investments given the new political and economic climate. With funding literally disappearing overnight, the new Russian space program was forced to fall back on the Soyuz capsules, which proved more than up to the challenge, serving all the way up to the present day. The Buran was destroyed in 2002 when its hangar collapsed due to lack of maintenance, though two additional shuttles note  are still in storage in case Russia ever sees fit to restart the program.
That's No Moon!, It's a Space Station
While the Americans won the Moon race, the Soviets eventually proved more successful in the business of space station building. The first Soviet space station, Salyut ("Salute") 1, became the world's first in 1971, and suffered many teething problems: the first crew to go there couldn't get the docking mechanism to work and returned without entering, while the second crew did, and performed important work, but then tragically died on re-entry when their capsule accidentally depressurized.
The U.S. retaliated in 1973 with Skylab, a much larger space station which used surplus Project Apollo hardware, essentially replacing the huge S-IVB third stage on a modified Saturn V; instead of propelling an Apollo to the moon, it would be outfitted as a station and stay in Earth orbit. Three crews (using Apollo spacecraft launched on smaller Saturn IB rockets) visited the station before space policy changed and the use of Apollo hardware was ended. NASA hoped to use the space shuttle to boost the station and visit it again, but delays to the shuttle's development and unexpectedly high atmospheric drag meant Skylab re-entered over Australia in 1979 and broke up. It was the first and only space station ever built by the USA alone.
The Soviets, meanwhile, continued the Salyut program throughout the 1970s, also using it as a cover for the similar military Almaz space stations (the Soviet military eventually concluded, along with its U.S. counterpart, that manned reconnaissance stations were not significantly better than automated satellite reconnaissance). Salyut 7 significantly upped the ante in 1982, being the first modular space station testbed, and was followed by the famous Mir ("peace") in 1986. Mir was constructed from several components and sufficiently alarmed the Americans to persuade them to plan to use the shuttle to build "Space Station Freedom" in the Reagan years—which was repeatedly cut back by successive presidents, one of the cut-down designs being derisively referred to as "Space Station Fred".
Then, the sudden end of the Cold War and breakup of the Soviet Union note  caused some unexpected changes to everyone's plans. With the new Russian Federation space program being strapped for cash and Space Station Freedom/Fred/Alpha still on the drawing board, NASA signed an agreement with the Russians by which the Shuttle would visit Mir and the U.S. would help fund the Russians in exchange for use of their hardware. This Shuttle–Mir program lasted from 1994 to 1998, and was a great success; however, Mir was decaying and suffered a serious accident when a Progress automated freighter collided with it in 1997. There was a fire and a breach, with part of the station being exposed to vacuum, and Anglo-American commander Michael Foale had a Moment of Awesome when he and his colleagues helped save the station from this science-fiction-like incident, even salvaging many of the science experiments.
This incident shook American confidence in Mir and, lacking funds, the station was de-orbited in 1999. At the same time, however, a remarkable international endeavor was beginning. After noting the spiraling costs of Space Station Freedom/Alpha, the fact that the Russians had hardware for a "Mir-2" space station they could not afford to launch, and that the Japanese and European Space Agencies also wanted to launch space stations but were low on funds, the Clinton administration brought all the groups together and the International Space Station was born.
The ISS has been under construction since 1998. While costs have risen, partly thanks to the Shuttle Columbia accident and therefore the shuttle being unavailable for construction at times, all the station's main components are now in place, and in 2009 it had finally reached the stage where the crew could be raised from three to six. This is important, as the former crew of three really did not have much time in between maintaining the station to actually do the science experiments that are the station's purpose. The ISS contains components from the U.S., Russia, Japan, and the European Space Agency, and has now been resupplied by ships from all four participants as well.
However, its high maintenance costs have resulted in the ISS being somewhat unpopular with some at NASA, who regard it as eating up the budget they need for more ambitious missions, such as returning to the Moon. This has led to some ridiculous ideas, like the station being de-orbited just after it's finished, which have fortunately been derailed. (De-orbiting is required under international space law; however, the Russians and possibly the Japanese have said that if the U.S. pulls out, they intend to keep their own ISS components in orbit and use them as the cores for new stations). NASA has turned to private contractors to supply their side of the ISS, with SpaceX's Dragon spacecraft proving very successful early on. Thanks to their Commercial Crew Program, which are developing two manned spacecraft for the ISS from SpaceX and Boeing, American independent manned capability to ISS has returned as of 2020.
Besides the ISS, privately-owned space station concepts now being built by Bigelow Aerospace. Two small-scale prototypes called Genesis are currently in orbit). They await a buyer, however.
The Chinese National Space Administration, which was were blocked by the U.S. from participating in the ISS program, is currently working on a series of small space stations, the Tiangong ("Heavenly Palace") class. They are similar to the Soviet Salyut program from the 1970s, serving as a testbed for larger and more sophisticated future stations. Naturally, like the Shenzhou class spacecraft—a derivative of the Russian Soyuz—the Tiangong is a heavily modernized take on the idea, using current tech.
The Final Frontier
The Space Race wasn't just for manned missions. Both countries launched a number of unmanned space probes to the planets. The most famous of these were the Mariner spacecraft, a series of probes that started launching in 1962. Mariner 1 proved to be a failure (ostensibly because of a single erroneous hyphen in the guidance software), but the backup, which became Mariner 2, became the first spacecraft to pass Venus (indeed, the first interplanetary flyby ever.) Mariner 3 also failed, but Mariner 4 became the first to fly by Mars. Mariner 5 was another flyby of the veiled planet, this time with more scientific equipment. Mariners 6 and 7 went back to Mars. Mariner 8 was another failure, but 9 settled into Mars orbit, where it actually remains to this day. Mariner 10 managed to visit both Venus and Mercury in 1974 (it was the only probe to photograph the latter until MESSENGER arrived in 2008).
The other famous line—the Pioneer probes. Pioneer 1, 2, 3, and 4 went to the Moon. Pioneer 6, 7, 8, and 9 make up a solar weather monitoring network, to warn about magnetic storms which can be dangerous to satellites in Earth orbit—Pioneer 6 (launched in 1965) was contacted as late in 2000 and is still considered active. Pioneer 10 and 11 are the most well known. Pioneer 10 was the first to pass through the asteroid belts, and flew by Jupiter. NASA was still in contact with it until 2003, as it headed out into interstellar space. Pioneer 11 visited Jupiter as well, and provided some of the first looks at Saturn. These two probes also carried a plaque with information about Earth, should they happen to be picked up by any marauding aliens.
In 1975, the Viking probes were launched. They were among the first planetary landers, note  and highly successful. These landers were equipped with experiments designed to test for life, but they were largely inconclusive; still, the view they showed of the Martian landscape was the nail in the coffin of the "little green men" vision that existed prior. The landers had matching orbiters as well, which provided valuable data of their own, right up to the end of the decade.
The last set of probes from this period were the Voyagers, arguably among the most famous unmanned probes of all time. Due to a very fortunate alignment of the planets, note  Voyager 1 and 2 were able to visit several planets. Voyager 1 provided the world with the famous "Pale Blue Dot" photo, giving people a sense of how small the Earth actually is. Voyager 2 visited Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. The probes provided a huge amount of data, and revolutionized a lot of the thinking on how the outer gas giants behaved. Like the Pioneer probes, they were equipped with information about Earth, just in case they were ever found. The "Golden Records" contain photos and sounds of earth life, music, and messages in a variety of languages. Both Voyagers are still in contact, on their way out of the solar system. note 
On the Soviet side, aside from the very successful series of the Moon landers, which generally should be counted as a part of the Moon Race, there were a number of the unmanned probes as well. The most extensive and successful of them was the Venera (Venus) series of probes launched in The '70s and The '80s that finally conclusively proved what a Death World Venus really is. The first of these generally coincided with the American Mariner launches and were intended to study the Cytherean note  atmosphere, determining its composition was mostly carbon dioxide and sulfuric acid. No one, however, expected the tremendous pressure of this atmosphere, and the probes died when they exceeded their crush depth. Venera 3 and Venera 4 saw every piece of their equipment destroyed by the time they reached the surface, so Venera 5 and Venera 6 were designed as atmospheric probes. Submarine designers were then consulted, and Venera 7 was robust enough to survive a landing and become the first manmade object to transmit surface data from another planet. Due to the failure of the parachute causing it to tip over and an internal switchboard failure, this data was restricted to just the surface temperature—namely, extremely hot (475 °C (887 °F) ± 20 °C)—from which the pressure could be calculated based on gas laws and the known properties of the atmosphere. (Surprise, surprise, the calculation was extremely high—9 Megapascal ± 1.5 M Pa). Later probes landed better and were able to transmit images of the barren and stony desertlike surface.
The Venera series was continued with an equally successful Vega series (a portmanteau of VEnus+HAlley's Cometnote ), utilizing similar hardware, which was aimed at the further study of the Cytherean atmosphere by the means of weather balloons, and, on the second leg of their journey, a flyby of the Comet Halley. Both spacecraft were quite successful, transmitting the first images of a comet's core and spectroscopy measurements of its coma.
Latter studies, however, hit a roadblock. A curious peculiarity of the Soviet unmanned program is that while it was quite successful with the inner Solar System, for some reason, it invariably failed when Mars was concerned. The aforementioned Mars probe that lost contact with the Earth shortly after landing was only the tip of the iceberg; it was followed by several other failed probes.
For example, after the successful Venera series, Soviet scientists felt that they now had an experience advantage and embarked on an ambitious program of studying the Martian satellite Phobos, creating a complex and sophisticated series of Phobos spacecraft.
Unfortunately, all three of them note  failed for various reasons. Phobos-1 turned off its attitude engines and lost the ability to point its solar panels to the Sun, quickly depleting its batteries, because of an error in the command upload that accidentally triggered a test routine in its main computer that should've never been used in flight. Phobos-2 successfully completed its flight to Mars, but just as it deployed its scientific instruments and was preparing for the actual work, all contact with it was inexplicably lost. It was later attributed to on-board computer malfunction, but the last several images transmitted by the probe contained some strange objects that fueled conspiracy theories that it was shot down by aliens even up to this day. Mars-96 is probably the most tragic of the three, as it was lost in a launch mishap and fell into the Pacific Ocean without even achieving orbit. Even teaming up with China didn't help. Their next attempt, a joint Russian-Chinese sample return mission named Fobos-Grunt ("Phobos-Dirt") in 2011, didn't make it out of low Earth orbit, and fell back down two months after launch.
In 2016, however, Russia finally launched a fully successful Mars mission, with the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (a joint project between Russia and the European Space Agency) entering Mars orbit in November of that year. It is the largest Mars probe yet launched, and the first since the Viking landers to have been designed specifically for the purpose of searching for life on Mars.
List of major space agencies
NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration)—Founded in the early 1960s, NASA is The United States of America's national space agency and needs no further introduction.
RFSA (Russian Federal Space Agency)—More commonly referred to as "Roscosmos" and RKA (Kosmicheskoye agentstvo Rossii, i.e. "Cosmic Agency of Russia"). Established in 1992 as the modern successor to the prior Soviet space program.note  Its main spaceport is still Baikonur, but new and more economic spaceports in Russia (it's annoying for the Russians that they have to negotiate with now-independent Kazakhstan to keep their main spaceport) are currently in development. Despite a lot of cancelled projects over the years, the RKA is currently working hard on modernizing its spacecraft inventory. It is developing successors for the time-tested Soyuz series of manned spacecraft and launchers, since the gradual upgrading of these was only ever seen as a temporary solution. One key new vehicle will be the manned PPTS, nicknamed "Rus". In contrast with the Soviet space probe missions, modern Russia's space probes have mostly been unsuccessful. Along with the US, Russia is the most important contributor to the ISS, primarily via its Zvezda and Zarya modules, Soyuz and Progres flights (at present, the only way for astronauts to get to the ISS and back is aboard Soyuz), and general on-board maintenance. Russia operates a wide variety of launch vehicles, but most of them are only used for satellites.
ESA (European Space Agency)—Includes several national space organizations of the member countries. Formed in 1975 by the merger of two previous European spaceflight organizations, ELDO and ESRO. In the pre-ESA days, it used spaceports based in Europe, east Africa and Australia. Since the 1970s, its main spaceport has been Kourou in French Guiana. Despite a history of setbacks and lower budgets than those available to the Americans and Russians, ESA has enjoyed successes with its many ambitious space probe missions (Giotto, Mars Express, Venus Express, Rosetta, etc.), the Ariane and Vega series of launch vehicles, the orbital laboratories Spacelab (flown aboard the Space Shuttle) and Columbus (part of the ISS), as well as the man-rated ATV resupply spacecraft. In a recent Moment of Awesome for ESA, NASA has struck a deal with it about providing a licensed version of the ATV's propulsion module for the MPCV Orion manned spacecraft.
CSA (Canadian Space Agency)—Often seen as merely a Canadian colleague and pendant of NASA and ESA, the Canadian space programme has nevertheless had its fair share of successes thanks to its engineering of spacecraft accessories (mainly robotic manipulation arms), numerous experienced astronauts and participation in international projects. However, the agency itself doesn't possess its own launch capability.
JAXA (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency)—Created in 2003 by the merger of three previous national space research and spaceflight organizations. JAXA has made a name for itself thanks to its successful space probe missions (particularly Hayabusa), the Kibo research module of the ISS and the H-II Transfer Vehicle "White Stork" resupply spacecraft. JAXA has two domestic spaceports and uses its own domestically developed launch vehicles, including the H-IIA, H-IIB and Epsilon.
CNSA (Chinese National Space Administration)—While the PRC has had a space programme since the 1960s, countless delays and political and economic changes kept it on a slow burn until the late 1990s. Since the early 2000s, the CNSA has been more active and now has some basic manned spaceflight and space probe experience. The CNSA's main launch vehicle is the domestically developed "Long March" series. The manned vehicle is the Soyuz-inspired/-derived Shenzhou, and the start-up space station programme, Tiangong, currently has one station in orbit, Tiangong-2. China became the third country in history to put a man in low Earth orbit with its own tech, during Shenzhou 5's flight on the 15 October 2003. And yes, their logo◊ is very similar to a certain fictional space exploration agency.
ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization)—Hasn't created manned spacecraft yet, but has a successful history of domestically created launch vehicles (the GSLV family), geostationary satellite launching and, as of late, some lunar probe and Mars probe missions. India has plans for early manned missions in the foreseeable future, but they may suffer some delays due to budgeting and changes in space policy. Their CARE test vehicle, an unmanned version of their Orbital Vehicle, successfully tested in December 2014, indicating that a manned flight might occur sooner than thought.
Also noteworthy is that India recently got signals back from their first ever Martian orbiter, making them the first ever nation to have success with their inaugural Mars mission.
AEB (Agência Espacial Brasileira, "Brazilian Space Agency")—Created in 1994. Not the only space and spaceflight organization of Brazil, but by far the most important of the four. Brazil's main spaceport is at Alcântara. Brazil has developed its own sounding rockets◊, and more recently, launch vehicles and satellites (particularly the VLS launcher). It has a rather slow-moving space programme, though still the most active one among South American countries. The Brazilian spaceflight programme suffered a major and catastrophic setback in 2003, when a solid fuel VLS exploded at its launch pad, destroying everything in sight and killing over 20 people, including some of the experts working on Brazilian launchers. AEB has since tried to rebuild and regain pace heavily. In a pinch, the AEB has also been directly participating in the ISS from the start. It has developed some of the smaller life-support and maintenance modules and research devices needed for the station. In 2006, it sent one of its few astronauts to date, Marcos Pontes, to the ISS for scientific purposes. Pontes became the first Brazilian in space. Currently, AEB is developing the new Southern Cross class of launch vehicles, with some help from RKA.
KARI (Korean Aerospace Research Institute) — Founded in 1989. Has had success in launching sounding rockets and building orbital satellites launched by other nations. It is currently working on development of the Nuri (aka KSLV-II), Korea's first orbital rocket, although progress has been slow. It's astronaut program produced the grand total of one astronaut who resigned after a single flight to the ISS and the program was more or less abandonednote . KARI is also working on its own lunar exploration mission and a number of experimental aircraft.
For a full list of public space agencies worldwide, go here.
Depictions in fiction
Anime & Manga 
The Planetes manga and its anime adaptation offer a near-future, hard sci-fi look at space agencies and commercial spaceflight in the near Solar System.
Space Brothers manga and its adaptions describes an older brother's effort to go to space while been overshadowed by his younger brother.
Twin Spica is a slice-of-life about a group of friend making a promise to meet each other in space while competing against each other for the astronaut position. Please have tissue box nearby when reading or watching this work.
    Comic Books 
The Ministry Of Space (2001) miniseries by Warren Ellis is a (slightly satirical) depiction of an Alternate History where the British space programme is created earlier and under far more favourable conditions and becomes a leader in the Space Race early on.
Laika (2007) by Nick Abadzis tells the life story of the first space dog and the researchers that took care of her before her (ultimately doomed) flight into space.
Jack Kirby's Fantastic Four is a long runner series written during those years. The space race is referenced in FF #1 and FF #13, and FF #98 includes the actual Moon landing.
    Film 
The Right Stuff (1982): A historical comedy about the early days of NASA, the Mercury and Gemini spacecraft programmes and the astronauts and staff that participated in them.
Apollo 13 (1995): Big screen historical docudrama about the eponymous ill-fated mission of the Apollo Moon exploration programme.
The Red Stuff (1999): A punny-named feature-length Dutch-Russian documentary about the successes and pitfalls of the Soviet space programme from 1957 to the end of the 1960s.
Capricorn One (1978): A Conspiracy Thriller where the US government secretly meddles with NASA's eponymous first mission to Mars.
The Dish (1996): An Australian comedy about the personnel of the Australian satellite dish station at Parkes and the role they played in securing communication links between NASA and Apollo crews during the lunar landings.
One, Two, Three (1961): At the time of the filming, the Soviet Union was still ahead, prompting East Berlin boy Otto (who dreams of becoming a rocket scientist himself) to make a rather cruel joke to Coca-Cola exec C. R. MacNamara: "Soviet rocket: whoosh, up to the moon! American rocket: pffft, pffft, Miami Beach."
Hidden Figures (2016) tells the story of three African-American female computers (that is, people who performed computation) working at Langley on research for Project Mercury. The film's climax is John Glenn's orbital flight, for which one of the women performed the retrofire calculations.
First Man (2018) is a biopic film about Neil Armstrong, from his recruitment as an astronaut to the success of Apollo 11.
    Literature 
The non-fiction book Lost Moon (1993) by Jim Lovell. It is a first-hand account on the Apollo 13 incident and became the basis for the Apollo 13 film.
Stephen Baxter's Alternate History novel Voyage (1996), part of The NASA Trilogy.
Michael Cassutt's romance/mystery Missing Man Trilogy, in which the first and last books describe two NASA astronaut's relationship during the Shuttle Era, the middle installment is in the shoes of a Soviet engineer during 1966.
In Trigger Mortis, a freelancer millionaire hired by the Soviet Union attempts to frame USA for a rocket-based incident in order to set them back in the space race for several years.
    Live Action TV 
The 1998 HBO docudrama series From the Earth to the Moon chronicles the history of the Apollo programme.
Discovery Channel's When We Left Earth: The NASA Missions (2008)
Several BBC documentary series:
The Space Race (2005): Live-action docudrama about the early years of the American and Soviet space programmes and their natural rivalry. Starts with the events of Operation Paperclip and Korolyov's release from prison.
Space Odyssey Voyage To The Planets (2004): A live-action mockumentary set a few decades in the future, focusing on a NASA/ESA/CSA/RKA crew of astronauts on a "grand tour" expedition around the Solar System aboard a cutting-edge interplanetary spacecraft.
The 1990s series The Cape focused on fictional NASA astronaut crews serving aboard the Space Shuttle missions.
Briefly touched on in Mad Men: Bert Cooper, although a libertarian, was in full support of the Moon Race (mostly as a "show-the-Commies-we're-better" endeavor). He lived to see the Apollo 11 landing, rising in jubilation when Armstrong set foot, and then died right on the spot.
Community does an Homage episode in which Greendale battles City College to be the first community college to pretend to go into space.
The Astronaut Wives Club, a miniseries based on the book by Lily Koppel, relates stories of the wives of the original seven Mercury astronauts. It aired on ABC in the summer of 2015.
For All Mankind: An Alternate History series that speculates what would have happened if the Soviets get to the Moon first in 1969, and thus the space race continues for decades.
    Tabletop Games 
The Space Race functions as an optional minigame within Twilight Struggle that both players can spend cards on to get extra advantages and a few bonus Victory Points for being in the lead.
    Video Games 
Buzz Aldrin Race Into Space (1992): Allows you to take control of one of the two competing space programs with the goal of beating the other to the Moon.
Orbiter (2003–present): Includes real and fictional spacecraft involved in the Space Race, both in its vanilla version and plentiful game mods.
Kerbal Space Program (2011–present): A more whimsical take on the concept and with No Antagonist, but still demonstrates the difficulty and complexity of staging space missions without sci-fi technology. Historical space missions can be recreated even without mods.
Battle Zone 1998: depicts an Alternate History space race, where the Apollo program was a masquerade in order to cover up a full-on interplanetary war between the USA and USSR over Un Obtainium scattered throughout the solar system.

Useful Notes / Hillary Rodham Clinton
Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion.
— Hillary Clinton
Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton (born October 26, 1947) began her legal career as a children's advocate in Arkansas, which led her to a prestigious (and glass-ceiling-smashing) legal career at the Rose Law Firm. Said legal career eventually led her to serve as Senator from New York, run for President (twice), and be co-opted for the Administration of the first guy who beat her — Barack Obama — as Secretary of State, a role in which she visited 112 countries in four years and which has seen her widely regarded by many as one of the best modern Secretaries of State ever to hold the position.
For eight years she was First Lady of the United States, being without question the most politically active First Lady in American history, handily beating out even Eleanor Roosevelt.
A graduate of Wellesley College and Yale Law School, Clinton spent years working as a lawyer, specializing in child services and welfare. She met Bill Clinton when both were students at Yale Law School and married him in 1975. By the time her husband ran for Governor of Arkansas, she was already well known as a lawyer and politician in her own right and had come to national attention as the first student ever to give the commencement address at well-respected Wellesley College, her alma mater, and as the first-ever female partner at Arkansas' prestigious Rose Law Firm. She actually pulls in more money than Bill (through her Clinton Foundation), and has consistently shown to be wearing 'the pants' in the family.
She was a highly controversial First Lady, making health care reform her pet project and attracting attention for her hands-on approach. The moniker "Billary" and the "two-for-one" jokes may have been funny, but they also held more than a grain of truth, and the contrast was even more marked after the distinctly hands-off, stay-at-home policies of then-recent First Ladies such as Barbara Bush and Nancy Reagan.
Her tenure as First Lady, however, was only the beginning for Clinton. She became the first First Lady to hold political office in her own right when she took her oath as Senator (D-NY) in early 2001, just months before the devastating attacks on the World Trade Center. Obviously, as New York's junior Senator, in the immediate aftermath of 9/11 she was instrumental in shaping America's response to the attacks. Later on during her time in the Senate she campaigned further for health care as well as speaking up for rural areas such as upstate New York and the areas around Albany and Syracuse.
She won again by a significant margin in 2006, but left the Senate to engage in the closest primary election in American history, the 2008 Presidential Democratic primary. Up against Barack Obama, she won over 18 million votes around the country and was the first serious female candidate for the Presidency in history. She fought the campaign out right up to the Democratic National Convention, but spoke in favor of her former rival as its keynote speaker on its second night. Since Defeat Means Friendship, she joined Obama's cabinet as Secretary of Statenote , becoming the first spouse of a former president to serve on the Cabinet and the third woman to serve as head of the State Departmentnote , and has used her many foreign contacts from her days as First Lady to assist in restoring America's image around the globe.
She chose not to remain in the post for Obama's second term, passing that baton to now-former Senator John Kerry. Though she refused to say 'yes' to whether or not she would run again in 2016, she also, quite notably, refused to say 'no'. She also hinted that she might write another book, which was later confirmed; a second memoir called Hard Choices, covering her time as Secretary of State was released in June of 2014. In April 2015, the speculation was confirmed when she finally announced her candidacy for President in the 2016 election. On July 26, 2016, she became the Democratic Party's nominee for President, adding yet another 'first' to her very long list as she became the first woman to be officially nominated by a major party for President of the United States.
On November 8th, 2016, despite winning the popular vote, she lost the electoral college vote and thus the presidency to Donald Trump.
Although several different biographies of her have been written, she has also written her own autobiographies, Living History (2003), Hard Choices (2014), and What Happened (2017), her personal account of the 2016 Presidential Election.
Clinton's policies, image, and general existence are highly controversial and as with all things political, kindly follow the Rule of Cautious Editing Judgment.
Hillary Clinton in fiction
She goes by the name Hilldog in South Park. In The Snuke, her supporters wear dog masks, and she speaks with a heavy Dixie accent. In 2008, the real Hilldog imitated the accent to southern voters, and in 2016 she imitated a dog to mock Republicans.
She goes by the name Hillary Easton in Choujin Sensen and is currently trying to solve the mystery of [FEE] as the 45th President of the U.S.A.
Susan Stanton in the Roman à Clef novel Primary Colors is based on her. In the film adaptation, she's played by Emma Thompson.
In the film The Special Relationship (broadcast on HBO in 2010), she's played by Hope Davis. The film is about the relationship between Bill Clinton and Tony Blair.
She was parodied in several Saturday Night Live sketches. She was played by Amy Poehler in the most famous one, where Tina Fey played Sarah Palin. She was also portrayed by Jan Hooks, Ana Gasteyer, Vanessa Bayer and prominently during the 2016 campaign, Kate McKinnon.
Elaine Barrish Hammond (Sigourney Weaver) in the 2012 miniseries Political Animals is partially based on Clinton: she's a former First Lady who unsuccessfully campaigned for the Democratic nomination for President, and became the Secretary of State in the winner's administration.
In the backstory for the Axis of Time series, the 21st-century aircraft carrier USS Hillary Clinton is named after "the most uncompromising wartime president in the history of the United States".
The fanfic And All the Stars Burned Bright, a Star Trek crossover, name-dropped the USS Hillary Clinton as a President-class starship, thus implying that her then-speculative 2016 bid was successful; the fic was published in 2011, almost exactly four years before that bid became a reality.
In Stephen King's novel 11/22/63, she becomes President in 2004 in an alternate timeline that results from a time traveler preventing the Kennedy assassination.
In a first-season episode of Sliders, she is the President in an alternate universe where women are the dominant gender.
She is a constant background presence in HBO's Game Change, though never appears directly.
She is heavily implied to be Will McAvoy's contact at the State Department in The Newsroom, particularly as, when Will says he can't get hold of his contact there, another character tells him to call "her husband".
Alternative Title(s): Hillary Clinton

Useful Notes / Wayne Gretzky
"You miss 100% of the shots you don't take."
—A very famous quote from the man himself
Wayne Douglas Gretzky, born January 26, 1961, is a former NHL player for the Edmonton Oilers, Los Angeles Kings, St. Louis Blues, and New York Rangers. Considered by almost everyone to be the greatest hockey player of all time. Known simply as “The Great One”. The guy has broken so many records that if we were to list them here, the reader of this article would be here forever. Here is The Other Wiki's list of his records. Extremely well liked by hockey fans all over for his excellent playing, his apparent love and dedication to the game, good looks, and being one of the nicest hockey players ever. Seriously, when Gretzky actually fought someone, hell froze over.
Very popular with endorsements, promoting companies like Coca-Cola, Domino's Pizza, and Sharp Electronics just to name a few. Also made his mark on video games with Midway's Wayne Gretzky's 3D Hockey (basically the NHL answer for NBA Jam) and 989 Studio's Gretzky NHL games on the PlayStation 2 and PlayStation Portable.
Won 4 Stanley Cups with Edmonton, then in 1988, came “The Trade”. He was traded to the Los Angeles Kings, effectively making hockey extremely popular on the West Coast of the United States overnight and pissing off a lot of Canadians. Seriously, the Canadian government tried to intervene and block the trade, showing how much Serious Business hockey is in Canada. Gretzky also got married to American actress Janet Jones just a few months before, thus, many Oilers fans misblamed her for using her acting career as an incentive for Wayne to move to Los Angeles. After he was unable to secure a cup win in Los Angeles in '93 and not getting along with the new Kings owners, Wayne then went to the St. Louis Blues. Don't remember that? You weren't missing much, because not even a year later, he went to the New York Rangers, where he played until he closed out his career in 1999. His number 99 was retired pretty much immediately league-wide after he stopped playing, the only number so honoured, and he was inducted to the Hockey Hall Of Fame the same year he retirednote .
Also was the owner of the Phoenix Coyotes and served as their head coach for a while, although the team did not see much success when he was their head coach.
As always, you can read That Other Wiki for more detail about him.
The Ace: See the records on The Other Wiki? Gretzky either set them or broke them throughout his career, to say nothing of his outstanding skills.
Awesomeness by Analysis: See the page quote above. He has said in interviews that he didn't have size, strength, or speed on his side, so he had to make up for it with smarts. In his childhood years, his father always told him to "skate where the puck is going, not where it had been". This would later prove to be a contributing factor to him growing up to become the league's smartest player to ever set skate on the ice.
Child Prodigy: During his childhood years, he showed prodigious talent with the stick and often took practices with his father during their spare time.
It Will Never Catch On: Gretzky was dismissed by some scouts for being too light and not too physical, which would cause him not to last long in the NHL. Who's Laughing Now?
Humble Hero: See below.
Nice Guy: He was renowned for being respectful to everyone on and off the ice and simply focused on playing a clean game. Trying to rough him up on the ice pretty much guaranteed that his team's enforcers would come down on the offender harder than usual.
Officer and a Gentleman: In the figurative sense. Gretzky was both an awesome player and a fine gentleman, having won the Lady Byng Trophy (for most sportsmanlike play) 5 times in his career.
Red Baron: The Great One. Need we say more?
Took a Level in Badass: He likes to tell the story of his first trip to the Stanley Cup Final, in 1983 against the defending champion New York Islanders. Gretzky liked the Oilers’ chances – they did have Wayne Gretzky, after all – but the Islanders swept them in four games. He and his teammates sat in the locker room trying to figure out what just happened; then they walked to their team bus just as the Islanders were walking, or more accurately limping, to theirs. As Gretzky puts it, “that’s when the light bulb came on”. He saw, first-hand, that the Islanders had pushed themselves a lot harder. It’s safe to say the lesson sunk in: Gretzky and the Oilers would win four of the next five Stanley Cups.
Up to Eleven: Did this with both the legendary "Mr. Hockey" Gordie Howe's number 9, and all of Howe's records.
Weak, but Skilled: He had a fairly average physique during his playing days but his ability to visualize puck movement and see openings made him virtually unstoppable on the ice.

Useful Notes / Jack the Ripper
"Dear Boss: I am down on whores and I shant quit ripping them till I do get buckled... My knife's so nice and sharp I want to get to work right away if I get a chance."
"Why do people care so much about "Jack"... and not so much about the women that he killed?" — anonymous
One of the first, and likely still most famous serial killers. Not just a serial killer: THE Serial Killer. The failure to conclusively discover the Ripper's identity has made a large contribution to the case's fame, and it is one of the main Stock Unsolved Mysteries used in fiction.
The Ripper is commonly held to have killed at least five prostitutes in the Whitechapel area of London's East End during the fall of 1888 - although it's worth mentioning that far less well known serial killers have reached far more impressive numbers and what made the Ripper's fame was the media coverage and panic among the citizenry:
Mary Ann "Polly" Nichols (31 August)
Annie Chapman (8 September)
Elizabeth Stride (30 September)
Catherine Eddowes (30 September)
Mary Jane Kelly (9 November)
However, there is some controversy concerning the actual total, with some investigators including other prostitute murders performed in a broadly similar fashion before and after the 'canonical' five. In addition, there is (and will likely always be) a lack of consensus in the case of Elizabeth Stride, the only canonical victim to show no signs of postmortem mutilation. All five of the canonical victims died with their throats cut, and all but Stride were heavily mutilated; this, combined with a witness report and the fact that Stride's body was still warm when police arrived, led investigators to assume that in Stride's case the killer was interrupted, leading to the attack on Eddowes later the same night (what has come to be known as the "Double Event").
From the complex nature of the mutilations, involving relatively quick and neat removal of specific organs, it is probable that the killer had at least some knowledge of anatomy — as would a doctor, butcher or (in the theories involving royalty) a keen hunter. Unlike the other victims, Mary Kelly was killed indoors, safely away from any prying eyes, and thus, the mutilations to her body were considerably more severe than the others.note 
The murder and mutilation of prostitutes cut almost straight to the heart of Victorian morbidity, causing a wave of panic in London. This was exacerbated by a series of taunting letters to the Central News Agency and the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee between the "Double Event" and Mary Kelly's death. One of these letters purported to include half of Catherine Eddowes' missing kidney -"Tother piece I fried and ate it was very nise". All except this last are now usually considered to be hoaxes perpetrated by the reporters themselves, including the one in which the Ripper received his famous name. (The other letters show a much higher degree of literacy and spelling ability than the Eddowes kidney letter. Additionally, the half-kidney was ravaged with Bright's disease, consistent with Eddowes' known poor state of health.)
Besides these communications, the only clue the killer left behind was found on the night of the "Double Event", consisting of some bloody pieces of Eddowes' apron found in an alleyway; it is theorised that they were thrown there after the murderer used them to wipe his hands. A chalk inscription above the apron pieces, "The Juwesnote  are the men who will not be blamed for nothing", was also assumed to have been written by the killer for reasons unknown. However the inscription was cleaned away before it could be properly recorded, due to fears that it would incite the populace, and given the general anti-Semitism of the times it cannot be definitively established whether the phrase refers specifically to the Ripper murders.
Things became even more complicated when the killings (probably) stopped after Mary Kelly's death, and the case went more or less cold. Although as noted a few similar murders briefly revived fears for some years thereafter, it was and is widely believed that the killer's growing psychosis reached full expression with the Kelly murder, after which s/he either committed suicide, died naturally or was committed for other reasons.
The suspects named then and since represent an extraordinary cross-section of society of the time, ranging from a homeless Jewish butcher to various middle-class medical students to the Heir to the British Empire. The theory that the killer was a woman, a vengeful/insane midwife dressed as a man, has also been bandied about from time to time. Another popular notion has it that the killer had been infected with syphilis — a venereal disease that causes progressive brain damage in its last stages — and was out for revenge. Another (the basis for most of the Royal theories) held that the five victims were bound by knowledge of a highly sensitive secret harboured by one, probably Kelly, and killed by Mysterious Government Agents to keep them from talking.
Chief Inspector Frederick Abberline, the distinguished DI in charge of the case, apparently pinned his colours on George Chapman, a Polish immigrant barber-surgeon who killed three wives in succession; when Chapman was convicted, Abberline sent the officers a telegram reading "You've got the Ripper at last!" However, Chapman's known MO was poison, not the knife, and while it is not unknown for serial killers to change their MO, it is virtually unheard of to go from a rage-driven knife murder to the more distanced poisoning.
More recently, there has been some speculation that the Ripper was American, based on a similar contemporary murder in New York and the coincidence of the chief suspect in that case having spent some time in England. Another controversial new theory — advanced by crime writer Patricia Cornwell — features the painter Walter Sickert, whose works show a distinct fascination with low Victorian life, as either directly responsible for the killings or aiding in the Royal cover-up. Cornwell's theory is almost universally mocked by serious Ripperologists as a case of deciding the culprit before examining the evidence.
The latest purported breakthrough in the case is a DNA analysis of the shawl Eddowes was supposedly wearing on the night of the murder, sponsored by British author Russell Edwards. This appears to implicate longtime leading suspect Aaron Kosminski, another Polish immigrant barber who ended his life in an insane asylum and certainly fits the criteria well. However, as might be guessed, the provenance of both the shawl (which doesn't appear on the official list of Eddowes' effects, but was handled by at least two of her descendants prior to testing) and the test results themselves are hotly disputed. It has further been pointed out that given Eddowes' history of casual prostitution, singling out any specific man based solely on contact with her must be considered a dicey proposition at best.
The name "Jack the Ripper" influenced the nicknames of a lot of later killers, especially Peter Sutcliffe, the "Yorkshire Ripper". Originally he was given other names, including "Leather Apron" and "Mr. Hyde," but Jack's the one that stuck.
The Ripper case is particularly tantalizing for writers who want to make An Aesop or Historical In-Joke about Victorian London, as the case was never solved and much of the documentary evidence associated with it has been either lost or destroyed. It is also fairly common in stories whose pitches involve the phrase "Very Loosely Based on a True Story". As a testament to his (in)fame, Jack the Ripper was voted the worst Briton of all time by the BBC.
It has also attracted a reasonable number of dedicated students called "Ripperologists" and also a fair number of guided walks in the East End on the subject.note 
Related tropes:
Adaptational Attractiveness: Related to the below — a woman addicted to alcohol as at least some of the victims were, after leading the harsh life they did, isn't going to be as pretty when she reaches her forties as the actresses who are usually cast.
Age Lift: All but one of the five canonical victims were in their forties when they were murdered, but you certainly wouldn't know this from most film or TV adaptations, which cast much younger actresses.
Ambiguous Gender: A few theories claimed he may have not been a "he" at all, and may have been another prostitute or a woman who had some reason to hate them.
Ax-Crazy: If the gruesome murders are not enough for you, try reading his letters to the police.
Beethoven Was an Alien Spy: The various theories as to Jack's identity, with the former particularly true for the conspiracy-theory ones which involve the royal family.
Card-Carrying Villain: His letters are far from subtle about being a Serial Killer, to say the least.
The Conspiracy: Some theories maintain that the Ripper didn't work alone; how big the alleged conspiracy may have been is anybody's guess.
Couldn't Find a Pen: Averted. In his first letter, he said that he tried to do this, but he couldn't write with blood and used red ink instead.
Criminal Mind Games: Perhaps the first murderer to send taunting letters to the police.
Deadly Doctor: As mentioned above, many suspect that the Ripper was a doctor by trade.
Disposable Sex Worker: A curious aversion, considering how frequently this trope and serial killers are associated; despite the lowly social status of the victims, the killings so horrified Victorian society—inclined to be sentimental about 'fallen angels' and 'soiled doves' at the best of times—that they formed the impetus for numerous social reform movements, and the police's inability to locate the killer (and arguably inept handling of the investigation) spurred numerous reforms in the Metropolitan Police and its methods.
The Dreaded: The mere mention of his name could produce panic in London during his rampage.
The End... Or Is It?
While the killings supposedly stopped with Mary Kelly's gruesome death, the lack of a captured suspect and a series of other slasher-like murders in the following years led to fears that Jack had or would "come back". Additional killings elsewhere - notably a similar murder in New York - stoked fears that Jack had moved on to other urban hellholes.
One prominent example was the Thames Torso Murders, which began in 1887 and ended in 1889 (overlapping the Ripper murders) and were likewise unsolved. While there were similarities (the bodies were mutilated in a manner that implied considerable knowledge of anatomy, and the one victim to be positively identified was a suspected prostitute), the distinct difference was that the Torso killer dismembered his victims and disposed of the limbs separately, rather than merely removing their organs, and none of their heads were ever found. Most famous of the 4 victims was the so-called "Whitehall Mystery", because her body was found during construction of the new Metropolitan Police headquarters, the famous New Scotland Yard. While there was press speculation at the time that the Ripper and the Torso killer were the same person, police at the time concluded there was no connection and nearly all modern scholars agree.
Epileptic Trees: The various theories as to Jack's identity, with the former particularly true for the conspiracy-theory ones which involve the royal family.
Faux Affably Evil: His first letter has him come across as this, inviting them to try and catch him and "kindly" giving his trade name between giving gruesome details about how he killed his latest victim and what he plans on doing with the next and mocking the law enforcement.
Finger in the Mail: A kidney from the Ripper's fourth victim was mailed to the authorities.
Flanderization: After Mary Ann Nichols' murder, the police put out a request for a man seen walking down the street carrying a black bag at around the time of the murder to come forward, because they believed that he might have seen something and been a potential witness. As a result of this statement about someone who was not officially a suspect, practically every fictional depiction of the killer will show him carrying around his weapons and killer-trophies in a black Gladstone bag.
A Foggy Day in London Town: Most adaptations take place in foggy weather, as was typical for the time period in the UK back then.
Freudian Excuse: The FBI profile, mentioned below, posits that the Ripper had "a domineering mother and a passive or absent father," and suggests that his mother was an heavy drinker who "enjoyed the company of many men," explaining why all his targets were alcoholic prostitutes.
Gaslamp Fantasy: Some stories depict Jack as having been some sort of supernatural creature like a demon or a ghost or a vampire.
Gender Misdirection: There are those (including Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) who believe the killer may have been a woman, aka "Jill the Ripper." They base this theory on the fact that a woman would have been more easily able to gain the female victims' trust— and if she posed as a midwife, would not have attracted attention if she was spotted carrying bloody clothes.
Gorn: The Ripper was a Serial Killer who mutilated his victims, so of course. Many details of the crimes are definitely not for those with weak stomachs. How much of this is reflected in works depicting him is left to the creators' discretion.
Government Conspiracy: More than one theory holds that Jack was either a Royal or had something to do with the royal family.
Historical Villain Upgrade: The Ripper murders were undeniably gruesome, but he was hardly (as often portrayed) the very worst Serial Killer of all time, or even of Victorian Britain. note  The case grabbed the popular imagination mostly due to being sensationalized and notably unsolved.
Iconic Outfit: Popularly depicted with a top hat, cape and usually a cane, seemingly following the lead of a witness who saw such a man in the vicinity of Mary Kelly's murder. Thing is, Whitechapel was an extremely poor, working class neighborhood; someone dressed this much like a 'toff' would have stood out like a sore thumb had he spent much time in the vicinity. It's believed that if he existed, he was a (relatively) innocent gentleman simply out slumming for an evening, as was very characteristic of the era (prostitutes, remember?) and the real Ripper more likely wore clothes that didn't draw attention.
I'm a Humanitarian: If the letter about the kidney is authentic.
Jack the Ripoff:
Trope Namer. Had quite a few copycats, most notably Peter Sutcliffe aka "The Yorkshire Ripper", as well as Jack The Stripper, who unfortunately was never identified.
H. H. Holmes, the first well-known American serial killer (and also a Deadly Doctor) was a near contemporary of Jack, and comparisons were made when Holmes' crimes were revealed. Holmes was speculated by some to actually be the Ripper, with one of his own descendants championing that theory in the 2010s. However, his targets were in no way limited to prostitutes, like all of the (known) victims of the Ripper.
Jurisdiction Friction: Given the location of the killings, there were two competing agencies investigating the murders: the Metropolitan Police and the City of London force. They didn't do a good job of sharing information and had pursued different leads. Also, there were multiple Inspectors and Commissioners overseeing the case, which lead to interpersonal conflicts that hindered the investigation.
Karma Houdini: In theory and the general conclusion. Some suggest that the fact the murders stopped rather suddenly may mean that the perpetrator could have died or maybe been imprisoned for unrelated crimes, but there's absolutely no way to know for sure.
The Killer Was Left-Handed: Actually, he wasn't, but the persistent claim that he was shows just how pernicious this trope is. Investigators at the time believed this to be the case—an assumption that may have hurt their investigation.
Knight Templar: In more than a few appearances of Jack in fiction, it is speculated that he was a maniacal prude and that his motive for the murders was that he considered prostitutes immoral and filthy and that he was doing God's work by punishing them, even at times having his mother be a prostitute herself to add to this.
Monster Misogyny: The real one's known victims were all women, and that's usually the case in fiction too.
Murderers Are Rapists: As far as we know, a notable aversion. Of course, the victims were prostitutes and they were mutilated so badly it can't be known what was forced and what was not. He may have subjected his victims to something called piquerism though.
Nice Hat: He's often depicted with a top hat. However, since such a hat would have made him stick out like a sore thumb in the East End, it's unlikely he actually wore one while committing his murders. The man spotted while in the vicinity was probably not the Ripper because of that, but just another john picking up prostitutes.
Ominous Opera Cape: He tends to be depicted wearing one of these in fiction, but it's very unlikely that he actually dressed in one while out on the prowl.
The Profiler:
In October 1888, the London police commissioned police surgeon Thomas Bond for his opinion of the crimes. Bond's report analyzes forensic evidence from the crime scenes and speculates about the killer's personality and background. It's considered to be the earliest surviving offender profile.
In 1988, the FBI published a psychological profile of the Ripper murders; it can be read here (of course, since the profile was written a hundred years after the crimes, at best it's an interesting thought experiment).
Riddle for the Ages: We'll never identify Jack with any degree of certainty; it all happened too long ago. Whoever he was, he's obviously long dead by now, and most of what little evidence was gathered has been since been lost. And yet the allure of the mystery keeps drawing more Gull-Catchers to the dance.
Serial Killer: The Trope Codifier.
Serial Killings, Specific Target: Some theories and fictional depictions show one of the victims as more intentional than the others, who are killed as a distraction.
Shrouded in Myth: The various theories as to Jack's identity, with the former particularly true for the conspiracy-theory ones which involve the royal family.
Significant Anagram: Some of the theories of the Ripper's identity depend on obscure ciphers and anagrams from Victorian writings. One of the more far-fetched maintains that some sentences in Lewis Carroll's writings can be anagrammed into confessions to the crimes. Most serious Ripperologists scoff at this notion, some pointing out that the same twisting could be done with sentences from Winnie-the-Pooh!
Stock Unsolved Mysteries: Making speculation of the killer's identity a very common pastime.
Technology Marches On: The murders occurred when forensic investigation was in its infancy at best, meaning that much crucial evidence from the crime scenes was overlooked or lost. Attempts to test it with modern techniques have been inconclusive since the evidence has degraded, lost, or been improperly handled over time.
The Unreveal: The Ripper's identity was never confirmed and probably never will be. New suspects are proposed from time to time, but the evidence is far from definitive and always offers just as many problems as solutions.
The Unsolved Mystery: The definitive example in modern pop culture.
Victorian London: More precisely late Victorian London, in the final months of the year 1888, but somehow the Ripper murders became one of the defining images and enduring cultural memories from that time. Later artists, such as Alan Moore, point out the Ripper murders totally obliterated the optimistic certainty that characterized the era at its height.
Well-Intentioned Extremist: Some have speculated that the Ripper was motivated by wanting to draw attention to the awful conditions in the East End.
Wretched Hive: The East End of London in the 1880's was not a nice place be, to say the least, even before Jack came along. It was extremely overcrowded, mainly with Jewish refugees fleeing persecution in Russia, and Irish immigrants trying to escape the potato famine. Sewerage systems and water sanitation were nonexistent, providing a breeding ground for a plethora of nasty diseases. Unemployment, homelessness, and starvation were rampant. Ironically, though, the murders helped make the public aware of the horrific living conditions, which paved the way for future social reforms.
Jack the Ripoff, while a pun on this guy, is a trope about copycat killers in general — though, yes, some of them are copies of Jack.
The following works feature appearances by or references to the Ripper case.
Examples:
 Anime and Manga 
Who could forget JoJo's Bizarre Adventure and its Vampire Jack the Ripper, transformed by a super powered Aztec mask-awakened arch-vampire, of a sort bred by ogres to be consumed? No, really.
The Detective Conan movie, The Phantom of Baker Street involves both hunting for Jack the Ripper in a computer game and the descendant of the real ripper.
Ciel in Black Butler investigates the Jack the Ripper murders. Turns out that the killers were his aunt and her flamboyant shinigami butler.
The protagonist in Hiromu Arakawa's short series Shanghai Youma Kikai is is revealed to be a demon, and the original Jack the Ripper near the end of the first chapter.
And in Nobuhiro Watsuki's Embalming, along with Mary Jane Kelly and Frederick Abberline.
After the intro, Soul Eater opens with Maka and Soul defeating Jack The Ripper, who was turned into a kishin egg from eating human souls.
Ghost Sweeper Mikami posits that Jack the Ripper wasn't a single person, but rather a possessed shaving razor that could possess those cut by it, meaning that it was being wielded by the previous victims as it slew the women.
An early-twentieth-century flashback story in The Kurosagi Corpse Delivery Service has Jack the Ripper's ghost haunting a telescope and possessing voyeurs who use it. The story is notable for its explicit acceptance of the theory that the Duke of Clarence (not actually named, but instantly recognisable from the manga's inclusion of a much-reproduced photograph) was the killer.
Cain of the Count Cain series investigates Jack after his fiance was murdered. One of the more unusual interpretations of the murders, what with the Magic from Technology raising of the dead among other things.
In the first chapter of Time Eliminator, the main character is hired to erase these killings from history by a descendant of the detective that worked on the case.
In Nobunagun the Ripper is reincarnated in the present day as a man named Adam Muirhead. While Adam is a good guy, he's still a rather scary, Ax-Crazy Knife Nut. The finale reveals that the original Ripper was, of all people, Florence Nightingale. She was reluctantly killing women who were unknowingly infected with a deadly man-made biological weapon to prevent the disease from spreading to the rest of the population. Since the ordinary folk would have never believed her, she kept to the shadows and allowed the legend of the Ripper to spread.
The manhwa Jack the Ripper: Hellblade has an anti-heroic Jack killing demons disguised as prostitutes, which always revert to human form upon death, as well as turning out to be the other creation of a certain Victor Frankenstein, who has been alive for at least 400 years.
Shuumatsu no Walküre: Record of Ragnarok has Jack the Ripper as humanity's representative against Heracles in the fourth round.
Case File nº221: Kabukicho has an arc of the Ripper roaming around the street of Shinjuku, killing beautiful people with one of them being the daughter of the Ward Mayor Sebastian Moran. The case itself drove Dr. John H. Watson to the East side where he seeks Sherlock Holmes' help about it. At the end of the arc, the Ripper is revealed to be a recurring character who brainwashed a detective that had a crush on her. She killed because of an inferiority complex stemming from her being unable to have a sex reassignment surgery due to her small penis; after she killed her victims, she arranged their corpses into "angels" and ate the wombs of her female victims so that she could feel she had one. It is also revealed that she was hired by the Mayor to kill his son, James (a.k.a. James Moriarty) except she ended up killing his twin sister instead.
    Comic Books 
The DCU's first Elseworlds graphic novel, Gotham by Gaslight, features a Victorian era Batman tracking the Ripper to Gotham City. Surprisingly enough, no attempt was made to link him to any of Batman's usual villains. His identity is revealed to be Jacob Packer, an American doctor-turned-lawyer and former friend of the Wayne family. In a very shocking change, when this story was adapted into an animated film, the identity was changed to Commissioner Gordon.
The Elseworlds Wonder Woman: Amazonia is set in a world where Jack has become King, and the British Empire is a misogynistic dystopia.
In the mainstream DCU, Jack the Ripper was Red Jack (a Star Trek Shout-Out), a godlike being who claimed to be both Jack the Ripper and God Himself while fighting the Doom Patrol. Or he was Mary Kelly's boyfriend, encouraged by the demon Buzz from Peter David's Supergirl. Or he was possessed by a different demon, Calibraxis from Hellblazer. Or, just possibly, he was Vandal Savage, and was stopped by Resurrection Man.
In an issue of Superboy, Project Cadmus is hired to analyze the Ripper's DNA and find out who he was. Instead, Mad Scientist Dabney Donovan uses the sample to create a monster called Ripjak.
In an early 1970s Superman story, the ghost of the Ripper fell in love with Lois Lane while she and Clark Kent were doing an extended visit with one of his descendants; the ghost arranged a form of mystical time travel to send Lois back to Whitechapel to be murdered by his earlier self so she could join him in the afterlife, only to be foiled by his own obsessions — the earlier Ripper refused to harm Lois because she "was not like the others".
The Madame Xanadu series also involves the Ripper, but rather than reveal his identity his actions are described by the Phantom Stranger to be the universe's "balancing act" response to actions undertaken by Madame Xanadu centuries ago. As it goes, Jason Blood / Etrigan fathered a child on one of the Ripper's victims, and had she carried the child to term, it would have been the greatest horror that could ever walk the Earth. The Ripper murders were a byproduct of the universe attempting to prevent this from happening, and ultimately succeeded. Afterwards, Stranger, while not actively interfering, does take matters into his own hands, and arranges for the Ripper to fall and break his neck rather than continue, because while he "only observes" what takes place, he was as repulsed as any by the murders, even though he accepted the necessity of them.
A story in the Justice League of America series fused with H.G. Wells' The Island of Doctor Moreau and features Jack the Ripper as an orangutan.
Hellblazer: In the Royal Blood arc, the cause of the original murders was the crown prince getting a prostitute pregnant. Queen Victoria went batshit and ordered the royal family's surgeon to dispose of the evidence. As he lacked the stomach for murder, he was made the host for the demon Calibraxis, which cheerfully went and killed several other prostitutes. Now it's being tried again, with a politician deciding to have the Prince of Wales possessed by the same deamon in order to give him the backbone to turn the county into a fascist nightmare, resulting in the prince going around and eating people until Constantine tricks the demon into entering the politician.
Alan Moore's From Hell is a deconstructive and metafictional examination of the Ripper murders. The title is a reference to the letter to the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee that contained what was claimed to be Catherine Eddowes' kidney. The graphic novel is considered one of the most detailed and accurate portrayals of the period and setting. It uses a widely discredited theory by Steven Knight that noted physician Sir William Gull committed the murders because the victims knew of a child Prince Albert had with a commoner as its base, but Moore explicitly states that he doesn't actually believe it. In the Appendix, "Dance of the Gull-Catchers" he states clearly (see the quotes page) that the crime is unsolvable and ultimately people should focus on improving the treatment and protection of sex workers and women in general.
In The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Macheath is Jack the Ripper — he fled to Buenos Aires after the last Whitechapel murder, and returned to London in 1910. Naturally, he never stopped killing. As a sidenote, he claims to have committed the original murders when he was only 19.
Paul Cornell's Wisdom has the eponymous hero battling hundreds of Jack the Rippers. A villain basically opens up portals to Alternate Universes and unleashes their versions of Jack the Ripper onto the streets of modern day London, with plenty of Shout Outs to other versions of Jack the Ripper in popular culture.
A Star Trek: The Next Generation comic drove holodeck problems about as far as they could go by having the alien Jack the Ripper (from the episode below) take over the system.
An issue of The Maze Agency had a killer picking off members of a group of 'Ripperologists' (people interested in the mystery of Jack the Ripper) by cutting their throats, using a twisted interpretation of the poems the Ripper sent to the newspapers to determine the order.
The first CSI graphic novel had a Jack the Ripper copycat killing prostitutes in Las Vegas during a convention of Ripperologists.
The Buffy the Vampire Slayer comic spin-off "Tales of the Vampires" included a story in which the Ripper was a vampire, the twist being that the policeman investigating turned out to be a vampire as well, who eventually killed the Ripper for being too splashy and risking exposing the existence of vampires to the public.
A Hellraiser comic reveals that Ripper became a Cenobite.
An horror comic story (Astonishing #18) with a few historical accuracy issues had an adventurer visiting the grave of Jack the Ripper (with the absurd inscription 'Jack the Ripper — Murderer') and being killed by the Ripper's ghost.
In the French Darker and Edgier Prequel to Peter Pan by Regis Loisel, Jack murders Peter's abusive prostitute mother apparently out of pity for him, but still clearly traumatizing the poor boy. Furthermore, it's implied that this event in fact launched the Ripper murders, as it apparently made Jack loathe all prostitutes as abusive monsters.
The Marvel Universe offers several contradictory explanations of who Jack the Ripper was.
An issue of Doctor Strange had it that he was possessed by a servant of the Dimension Lord Dormammu.
The Mighty Thor #372, featuring an immortal(ish) serial killer whose preferred method was killing women with his knives, included a carefully hedged speculation that he might have been Jack the Ripper.
In Thunderbolts #166-167, the Ripper is Mr. Hyde, with the assistance of Satanna, and finally the other Thunderbolts and Inspector Abberline, once they learn the prostitutes have been possessed by evil spirits.
Issue #100 of Marvel Comics Master of Kung Fu (1981) featured a story titled "Red of Fang and Claw, All Love Lost". In it, the Ripper was an experiment of Fu Manchu's, who escaped and hid in London. The hero fought him at the end of the story.
During Volume 4 of Nightcrawler, a spirit with a fondness for knives and pretty women, heavily implied to be Jack the Ripper, is a commander in Azazel's army.
In the Strangers in Paradise arc "Molly & Pooh", a pair of high society killers believe they've discovered the identity of the Ripper and dispatch him in his old age. This story has virtually nothing to do with the rest of the series, and never connects back with it in any appreciable way.
Cybil in Nightmares on Elm Street studies Jack the Ripper, and Freddy bases her nightmares around that theme.
The comic Whitechapel Freak (2001) by David Hitchcock uses Jack the Ripper as an underlying background figure in a story that focuses on a traveling freak show. The Ripper is a legless man strapped onto the shoulders of a midget.
In the Italian comic book Martin Mystere, a vampire Richard Van Helsing discovers that the Ripper is an ancient mythical force, divided into several knives, which force their holders to kill. Van Helsing searches for and destroys the knives, including one which is destroyed by Sherlock Holmes.
In the Urban Fantasy graphic novel series Rachel Rising, a demon called Malus claims to a young girl named Zoe Mann that her great grandfather was Robert Mann, one of the many suspects for the Ripper, and later he gives her a very special knife that he calls "Jack". Later still, the origin of the knife turns out to be even darker than that, as the "knife" is actually the remains of Lucifer's sword that broke when he fell from Heaven, and Malus has given it to any number of profoundly evil people to wield over the years.
In The Strange Talent of Luther Strode, Jack The Ripper was a devotee of the Hercules Method. "Was" not because he died, but was ritually bound and trapped in a very small box. He get lets out.
Gets mentioned in a volume of American Vampire. Prince Albert committed the murders because he went insane after a brief encounter with the corpse of Dracula.
2000 AD had dealt with this a couple of times.
Judge Dredd has gone up against Jack the Ripper.
Nikolai Dante has The Rippers, an elite group of assassins working for Britannia who are genetically engineered to evoke the Jack the Ripper image to bring terror to their targets.
One of Tharg's Terror Tales had this cross over with Alice in Wonderland, where it turns out that Jack is actually Alice.
In Hack/Slash, Jack the Ripper is heavily implied to have been a slasher.
In some comic (EC? Warren?) a woman commits some heinous crimes and then makes a french leave with a time machine. Now guess who she immediately runs into at arrival, karma is such a bitch...
In the Doctor Who (IDW) storyline "The Ripper's Curse", the Eleventh Doctor, Amy and Rory face an alien war criminal called Mac'atyde, who uses a human disguise hide in Victorian London, but needs to consume chemicals produced in human organs when in a state of fear, and therefore commits the murders to feed. The graffiti about "Juwes" is an attempt to pin the murders on his enemies, the Ju'wes, who of course the London authorities have never heard of. The publisher blurb claims "it's the first time ever that the Doctor goes up against JACK THE RIPPER!", which it isn't (see Literature, below).
    Comic Strips 
The Phantom: In "The Phantom as Sherlock" the Phantom becomes a Sherlock Holmes lookalike to catch Jack Hack. Hack's real name is Rumbelow, a Shout-Out to real life Ripper scholar Donald Rumbelow.
There's a strip in FoxTrot where Paige takes a liking to dissecting frogs in biology class, and feels horrified at her own delight. Andy comforts her by saying that it could mean she could make a good surgeon, but then Jason pipes in that she could make a good Serial Killer as well. Paige cries out in horror at this, while Jason comments to himself: "Didn't Jack The Ripper study biology?"
    Fan Works 
Sherlock Homes Vs Jack The Ripper: Complete with werewolves and a zombified Albert Einstein.
Ultimate Sleepwalker: The New Dreams depicts Jack the Ripper as the illegitimate son of an Italian count who fled to Great Britain and conceived Jack through an affair with a prostitute. The embittered Jack grew up hating his lowborn origins and the mistreatment he received from his family, and studied the occult. A Deal with the Devil turned him into a malevolent supernatural demon that possessed different people and compelled them to commit the murders, which explains why the police never managed to catch him. It's only after Sleepwalker confronts and imprisons Jack in the Mindscape that the murders finally stop.
Profesor Layton Vs Jack The Raper has the killer resurrected into present day, and the mystery is pursued by Professor Layton, as well as crossed over Death Note characters, and King Shakespeer, not to mention Jams Bound. With Rouge Angles of Satin and a romantic subplot along the way. Almost certainly inspired by the before mentioned Sherlock Homes Vs Jack The Ripper.
In Say It Thrice, Sanduleak is revealed to have been the Ripper in life. And, ironically, met his end when one of his would-be victims managed to turn the tables on him.
Noa mentions in Blood Ties that Jack the Ripper was a vampire.
    Films — Live-Action 
The Lodger, based on the novel of the same name and directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
Time After Time features H.G. Wells going forward in time to stop Jack the Ripper in 1970s San Francisco. Jack fits in a bit better than Wells does:
Jack the Ripper: "Ninety years ago I was a freak. Today I'm an amateur."
Historical In-Joke (albeit an anachronistic one) in Shanghai Knights. The reason the killings stopped? Jack tried to victimize Chon Lin and...
Jack the Ripper: Nice night for a walk.
(Chon Lin kicks his ass and dumps him in the river)
Chon Lin: (in Chinese) FUCKING LOSER!!!
The villain of Red Eye is named Jackson Rippner, and even does a Lampshade Hanging on his Meaningful Name.
Lisa: "Jack" for short?
Jackson: Nah, I haven't gone by "Jack" since I was about nine years old. Last name's Rippner.
Lisa: Jack Rippner... Jack... Rippner... Jack the... oh. Oh! Well, that wasn't very nice of your parents!
Jackson: Yeah, that's what I told them. Right before I killed them.
A Study in Terror and Murder by Decree had people decide to pull out the big guns and had the world's most notorious serial killer hunted by the world's greatest detective, Sherlock Holmes.
Amazon Women on the Moon features an In Search of... spoof that suggests that Jack the Ripper was really... the Loch Ness Monster.
The horror movie Ripper: Letter from Hell is about a study group of Ripperology students with the same initials as each of the victims, who are killed off one by one by a copycat.
Edge Of Sanity, starring Anthony Perkins of Psycho fame, claims that the Ripper was actually Edward Hyde, as does the Hammer Horror Doctor Jekyll and Sister Hyde.
It is subtly implied in Sherlock Holmes (2009) that Lord Blackwood was the Ripper, or was at least involved somehow.
From Hell, (loosely) based on Alan Moore's same-named graphic novel. Inspector Abberline, played by Johnny Depp, gradually uncovers a complicated conspiracy behind the murders (involving the Royal Family, natch.)
G.W. Pabst's 1929 film Pandora's Box has Jack The Ripper turn up at the end to kill Louise Brooks' character after first seeming willing to spare her.
An unproduced script for a Doctor Who motion picture had the Doctor defeat an alien Jack the Ripper.
Doctor Strangelove featured General Jack D. Ripper, an unhinged Wing Commandernote  who would become the Trope Namer for General Ripper after single-handedly starting World War III.
In The Wolfman (2010), it's mentioned that Aberline was in charge of the Ripper case before being assigned to Blackmoor. Historically, he was.
InThe Butchers, Jack the Ripper is one of the six famous serial killers brought back to life by a Tome of Eldritch Lore. And Jack turns out to be a woman. (The other serial killers are Albert Fish, John Wayne Gacy, Jeffrey Dahmer, Ed Gein, and the Zodiac Killer.)
In Deadly Advice, Jack the Ripper is one of the five murderers providing advice to Jodie on how to kill her mother (and anybody else who gets in her way). The Ripper turns out to be a complete unknown, who complains about people assuming he has to be Prince Albert or the queen's personal physician or someone else famous. In a possible nod to Real Life Ripper suspect Aaron Kosminski, he says he was hairdresser.
In Jack the Ripper (1976), Klaus Kinski plays Jack the Ripper as a doctor whose mother was prostitute, and who who murders streetwalkers as a way of paying back his mother for her abuse.
Razors: The Return of Jack the Ripper (2016): A young writer believes she has discovered the holy grail of terror, the knives used by Jack the Ripper for his notorious murders. But when the knives go missing the writers are plunged into a world of terror.
From Beyond the Grave: The spirit that possesses Edward in "The Gatecrasher" is strongly implied to that of Jack the Ripper. (This is made much more explicit in the short story on which it is based. See Literature below.)
    Literature 
The Lodger by Marie Adelaide Belloc Lowndes has a serial killer called "The Avenger". Although his MO is toned down, the killings and the panicked public reaction are clearly based on the Ripper.
"Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper", a short story by Robert Bloch.
Bloch later wrote another story about Jack the Ripper, titled "A Toy for Juliette". Harlan Ellison wrote a sequel to that story, "The Prowler in the City at the End of the World". Both stories were first printed in the Dangerous Visions anthology.
Bloch also wrote two novels about the Ripper: The Will to Kill (1954) and Night of the Ripper (1984).
There is an entire cottage industry built around non-fiction "true crime" books identifying the Ripper. Over 200 such books have been published, and most of them identify wildly different people as the Ripper.
One of the more notable was The Diary of Jack the Ripper, supposedly written by one James Maybrick, a middle-class merchant type, and later 'discovered' under some floorboards in the early 1990s. Now largely discredited, it nevertheless caused a huge sensation at the time. (Although Maybrick was a real person, as it happens, who may have been picked for the hoax as he was the victim in another mysterious and controversial Victorian murder case, when his wife Florence was convicted of poisoning him: the prosecution evidence for murder as opposed to suicide or accident was weak and it was believed by her supporters that she had been convicted solely because of her admitted adultery.)
Jack turns up as the Big Bad of Alex Grecian's Scotland Yard Murder Squad series from the third book onwards. In the series, his crimes stopped because he was captured by the Karstphanomen, a vigilante cult dedicated to catching vicious criminals and making them suffer what their victims did. When he's accidentally freed after years of this torture, he becomes even more ruthless than before.
In Shadowrun: Streets of Blood, the main characters encounter a crazed serial killer who is actually a clone of Jack the Ripper. Over the course of the story the characters solve the mystery of who the original ripper was.
That's what the antagonists want them to think. In reality, the Killer's psychosis was the result of severe conditioning. And the people who cloned him had no idea who the real Ripper was, they just cloned the person that would fit into their schemes to discredit the monarchy.
Also referenced in the Shadowrun short story "Whitechapel Rose", whose eccentric decker protagonist patterns his online persona on Jack the Ripper.
Bertolt Brecht's Author Tract Threepenny Novel identifies the Villain Protagonist Macheath with Jack the Ripper.
A Night in the Lonesome October by Roger Zelazny features Jack's dog as the main character. In the novel Jack is a magic-user, actually on the side of good and kills to obtain the materials to stop an eldritch armageddon and/or when affected by his curse.
Terry Moore's Molly and Poo short stories feature the Ripper.
A Study in Terror (see above) had a novelisation by Ellery Queen that included Ellery himself as a character in the framing story.
Many novels have Sherlock Holmes going up against the Ripper mystery. One, Michael Dibdin's The Last Sherlock Holmes Story, is notable for the Ripper being Holmes himself, when he's subsumed by his alternate personality, Professor Moriarty.
In the Nyctophobia series, set in an alternate history with period horror characters, Sherlock Holmes' son, Selwyn, recalls the story of how his father caught the Ripper, and he was unmasked as a clinic nurse named Alice French. It's his point's proof that women are as capable as men of committing grisly violence.
The Jack of Spades: 19th century Russian detective Erast Fandorin hunts Jack the Ripper. This particular version of Jack the Ripper is a Russian who came to Britain and then left back home (he's caught in Moscow).
The Michael Slade novel Ripper describes a series of occult-themed murders in 1990s Vancouver (investigated by Slade's fictional elite task force Special X) which are revealed over the course of the novel to be directly inspired by/copied from the Ripper murders by way of Aleister Crowley, thus advancing an occult-motivated theory of the original crimes (and postulating an identity for the Ripper himself). Note that it doesn't conclusively state who the Ripper was, only who Crowley's followers and the novel's own killers think he was. The "Ripper's Trunk" could've been yet another example of Crowley's theatrics.
Anno Dracula by Kim Newman follows the investigation of the Ripper murders in an alternate history where Count Dracula married Queen Victoria and became ruler of England.
Sorcerer Conjurer Wizard Witch by Kim Newman has the protagonists of Anno Dracula fighting an evil magician in an alternate history where Count Dracula failed to become ruler of England. As a Mythology Gag, there's a scene where they discuss Jack the Ripper, revealing that in this timeline he was a resentful nobody who committed his crimes in an attempt to become a story that would be remembered forever. As in literally to be transmuted from a flesh-and-blood human into a living legend, surviving in the collective unconscious of humanity. When he succeeded, all evidence of his human life vanished, so the mystery will remain forever a mystery: any attempt at solving it must fail, because any suspect anyone thinks of must necessarily be someone who still exists, and therefore not the real culprit.
The Warhammer spin-off novel Beasts in Velvet by Jack Yeovil (actually Kim Newman again) features the Warhammer universe's version of the Ripper murders, investigated by the Warhammer universe's version of Dirty Harry. (It's better than it sounds.)
In the Philip José Farmer's novel A Feast Unknown, Jack the Ripper is the father of the two heroes Lord Grandrith and Doc Caliban (expies of Tarzan and Doc Savage, respectively).
Doctor Who Expanded Universe
The Doctor Who New Adventures novel The Pit says that the Ripper murders were committed by a cult performing Human Sacrifice to summon an Eldritch Abomination.
Past Doctor Adventures novel Matrix has the Doctor's Enemy Without the Valeyard become the Ripper, in order to feed the Dark Matrix, a Gallifreyan AI containing all the evil of the Time Lords. This creates an Alternate Universe where the Matrix becomes the "Spirit of Jack the Ripper" and exerts a baleful influence over Britain into the 20th century.
The Doctor Who fan chronology Ahistory gets round the contradiction here (and in the audios, comics, and series) by proposing that the Ripper murders are an "unfixed point in time"; since they're recorded as an unsolved mystery, any solution the Doctor learns cannot be a definitive one.
The Haunting of Alaizabel Cray has a character named Stitch-Face. He's a serial killer who has murdered several women, before removing their tongues, eyes and kidneys, and in cases where he's interrupted he kills again shortly after in the same place- although some of the cases are the work of a copycat and part of something darker. Did I mention that this guy aids the protagonist and is ultimately instrumental in stopping the return of the local malevolent evil?
Jack the Ripper shows up in the 1888 segments of Final Destination: Destination Zero. Turns out he died when Death caused him to be crushed and ground up in the mechanisms of a bridge.
Paul West's novel The Women of Whitechapel and Jack the Ripper focuses on the Ripper's targets.
Dacre Stoker's and Ian Holt's Dracula the Un-Dead proposes that the Ripper was not just a vampire, but a lesbian vampire — specifically, Countess Elizabeth Bathory, quite undead. In order to do this, they push Jack's spree four years into the future from when it actually happened, which is honestly just the start of how many times the authors fail history class.
The Peculiar Mating Habits of Wasps is a story in which Watson notices that Sherlock Holmes has no alibi for the nights of the Ripper murders, and begins to suspect foul play. As evidence mounts, Watson finally follows Sherlock only to find out that Holmes has indeed been behind the slayings and the prostitutes had all been approached by the same client: a man infected by an alien creature which was controlling him, using the prostitutes as incubators for its eggs. Holmes had been following it and killing the larvae, explaining the mutilations. The story ends with the whole affair taken care of, with an obligatory title drop.
The Monstrumologist: Dr. John Kearns is actually the Ripper.
One of the Jakub Wędrowycz stories shows that the protagonist was Jack the Ripper. He accidentally travelled back in time to the nineteenth-century London, and the key to the time machine fell into a bowl of soup in a house inhabited by Time Police androids masquerading as prostitutes, seconds before dinner time.
In the Secret Histories series by Simon R. Green, Mr. Stab performed several gruesome human sacrifices in Victorian Whitechapel in order to obtain immortality. It worked, but this form of immortality had consequences for which he was not prepared.
A central character in the later books of Time Scout.
Fate/Apocrypha, a spin-off Light Novel of Fate/stay night, features Jack the Ripper as an Assassin-class Servant whose Master is a prostitute. Jack the Ripper is also a skimpily-dressed teenaged girl◊* . Her original summoner acquired her original knives and used them as the catalyst to summon her, but she kills him, reclaims the knives, and makes a contract with the prostitute. It's explained she was a wraith, an evil spirit born from the resentment of London orphans abandoned by their prostitute mothers. The killings stopped because a Magus figured out what she was doing and exorcised her. She has two Noble Phantasms. One is The Mist, which allows her to recreate the conditions of her murders by shrouding the field with a polluted fog. Another is Maria the Ripper, which makes it so if her target is female, it is night time, and foggy, then one hit from her knives will instantly eviscerate her target from the inside out.
Another Fate spin-off, Fate/strange fake, features Jack the Ripper as a Berserker-class Servant. This Jack isn't a person, but rather an incarnation of the Ripper legend itself. Because of this, he has no true form (and at one point even briefly shifts into the form of Apocrypha's Assassin) and no idea who the real Jack the Ripper was. He'd like to find out though. Also, he's completely calm and rational despite being summoned as a Berserker...or maybe it's because he was summoned as a Berserker, so he ironically becomes a Cloudcuckoolander's Minder to his bizarre Master Flat Escardos. He also has two Noble Phantasms. One is Natural Born Killers, which is based on the theory that Jack the Ripper was really a group of people. It allows him to make copies of himself, limited only by his supply of energy. With his current Master, he is able to make 520 copies. His other Noble Phantasm is From Hell, which is based on the theory that Jack the Ripper was really a demon. It allows him to transform into a demon whose strength is increased by the fear and unease of anyone in a 5 km radius. He can even use both abilities at the same time, but since the demon form consumes more energy, he can only make 200 copies.
Gordon Korman's kids' trilogy about the Titanic has the Ripper stowing away aboard the ill-fated ship. He dies after the ship sinks.
Brazilian-born comedian Jô Soares wrote O Xangô de Baker Street, where it was implied Jack the Ripper moved to England from Brazil, where he left victims Holmes failed to connect to the killer.
Dust and Shadow: An Account of the Ripper Killings by Dr. John H. Watson, by Lyndsay Faye. Exactly What It Says on the Tin.
Stephen Hunter's I, Ripper, told from the point-of-views of both Jack and the intrepid reporter on his trail, who turns out to be Thomas Dare.
The mystique of the Ripper in fantasy is deconstructed in Roz Kaveney's Rhapsody of Blood Urban Fantasy series. The Ripper turns out to be a rather incompetent and pathetic black magician who is hunted down and executed by one of the heroes as a minor incident in the story, with very little difficulty.
In the President's Vampire series, it's offhandedly mentioned that Jack was a "starchild" created by Aleister Crowley in the same sort of ritual later used by the Order to create the Boogeyman.
Shadow Police: In The Severed Streets, the team think they are dealing with the spirit of Jack the Ripper, conjured by London's collective memory of him. The truth proves to something more complicated. Quill encounters the real Jack the Ripper while in Hell.
Richard Laymon's Savage: From Whitechapel to the Wild West on the Track of Jack the Ripper, where Jack, also known as Roderick Whittle, continues his killing spree in the frontier.
The short story "Jack's Little Friend" by Ramsey Campbell: a modern day man finds a box with the names and dates of the murders carved in to the back. Inside is a saliva-like substance which is actually a Puppeteer Parasite, turning him into the next Ripper.
While not directly related to the Ripper murders, The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde was published before the spree began, and its role in popular culture developed the image of the Ripper as a gentleman by day and maniac by night. The Ripper himself was also nicknamed "Mr. Hyde" after the character in the story.
The young adult novel "Ripper" by Stephan Petrucha is centered around the idea that the reason the killings stopped in London was because Jack relocated to New York. The novel follows the main character as he tries to catch Jack once the killings start again. Jack is revealed to be the detective that the main character has been working with. Oh, and it turns out the main character is Jack's son. At the end, Jack gets away once again.
The Big Book of Jack the Ripper Stories anthologizes many stories about Jack, including The Lodger and a deleted chapter from Stephen Hunter's I, Ripper showcasing the Ripper in Hell, where he's forced to read the complete works of Edward Bulwer-Lytton for the rest of eternity.
The fourth book of the Sword of Truth series featured a serial murderer of prostitutes very much in Jack the Ripper's style. Except worse; his murders tended to be torture sessions several hours long, with him having enough medical training to keep them alive throughout. And he seems to have had a lot more victims.
In James Lovegrove's Age of Heroes, the immortals Hippolyta and Theseus reflect on how the last time they met before the present day was when they teamed up to track down and kill the Ripper. Hippolyta notes with amusement all the conspiracy theories that have built up about his identity over the years, when it turns out he was just a dockhand who was killing prostitutes to vent his rage over his erectile problems.
The SF thriller "Jack" by Tess Riley. A shady secret organization gets access to a time machine, which comes in handy as the royal house fears new accusations that the Ripper was one of them. (Unsurprising Spoiler: No dead celebs were harmed, but you'll never guess who did it.)
In the Area 51 series, the Ripper was one of the alien hybrids who have been pulling humanity's strings for centuries on the behalf of their hibernating masters. He in particular, however, suffered a bad case of Clone Degeneration and went crazy, running around killing women until his comrades put a stop to him.
In "The Gatecrasher" by R. Chetwynd-Hayes, Edward Charlton and his trendy friends hold an impromptu séance - and summon forth the spirit of Jack the Ripper. Saucy Jack soon has total dominion over Edward and together they prowl Soho, picking up working girls to butcher back at the flat off Edgware Road. When the downstairs neighbour grows suspicious that those stains on his ceiling are maybe not the result of spilt red wine after all, its time for the pair to part company. This story was later adapted in a segment of the Anthology Film From Beyond the Grave.
    Live-Action TV 
Star Trek: The Original Series — In the episode "Wolf in the Fold", which postulates that the Ripper was (and is and will be) actually an immortal Energy Being that feeds on the biological signatures of human fear (especially fear from women) called Redjac. Adapted by Robert (Psycho) Bloch from his short story, noted above.
Kolchak: The Night Stalker — In the original series episode "The Ripper". Jack is a immortal being that has killed (and eaten) women over the centuries for sheer sadism.
Babylon 5 — In the episode "Comes the Inquisitor", the inquisitor Sebastian is revealed to be Jack the Ripper, cryogenically preserved by the Vorlons and revived when needed. An earlyish hint that the Vorlons might not be as good as they want the younger races to think.
Or they saw it as suitable punishment for the man.
Sebastian: In the pursuit of my holy cause, I... did things. Terrible things. Unspeakable things. The world condemned me... but it didn't matter, because I believed I was right and the world was wrong! I believed I was the divine messenger! I believed I was-
Sheridan: Chosen?
Sebastian: I was found by the Vorlons. They showed me the terrible depth of my mistake. My crimes. My presumption. I have done four hundred years of penance in their service; a job for which they said I was ideally suited. Now... perhaps... they will finally let me die.
Sheridan: I think that might be wise.
Sebastian: Good luck to you in your holy cause, Captain Sheridan. May your choices have better results than mine. Remembered not as a messenger, remembered not as a reformer, not as a prophet, not as a hero, not even as Sebastian... Remembered only... as Jack."
A typo in the script led to Sheridan saying that Jack the Ripper was active in the West End rather than the East End; unfortunately, as the camera was focused on his face at the time, the subsequent dub to have him say East rather than West was extremely obvious.
The Outer Limits (1995): In the Revival episode "Ripper". Although Jack is never the Ripper, he's just framed for it by a body surfing entity due to stumbling upon one of the murders and then trying to unravel the mystery. Double points by having "the Ripper" entity taking over David Warner's character. Warner played Jack the Ripper in Time After Time.
Special Unit 2 — Jack turns out to be an ogre, but one entirely unlike Shrek.
Sanctuary — Jack the Ripper is given the name John Druitt (after Montague Druitt, one of the real-life leading suspects for the murders), is the villain of the pilot and Sanctuary head Helen Magnus' former fiancée. He later reappears as an ally, minus the insanity that caused him to murder...Maybe. And it was later revealed that the insanity was not, as first thought, caused by brain damage from his teleporting ability, but rather was the result of his body being invaded by a malicious energy creature in a Shout-Out to the above Star Trek episode. His teleportation was what made him vulnerable to the energy creature, so the initial theory wasn't wrong, just incomplete.
A 2009 ITV drama called Whitechapel has someone re-creating the Ripper murders in 2008 London. More or less, as location filming problems and the changing geography of the city (most of the relevant streets have now gone in slum clearances) has meant some murders have moved location slightly, something noted by the characters. The first episode does have someone stabbed 39 times in line with the Martha Tabram murder (one of the non-canonical ones before the five), but survives when the one aimed for her heart glances off a rib.
For extra points, many of the characters have very similar names to the real life figures- although the lead detective's first name is changed as it was the same as a serving police officer, which is not allowed.
Psychoville featured Jack as 'the one who was nevered captured' as a part of David's hallucination while in a waxworks museum full of serial killers. Then followed up with a creepy mucical number.
In Goodnight Sweetheart (a time-travel sitcom in which only certain people can time travel between the 1940s and 1990s by walking up a street in London) at one point Gary walks up it the wrong way from the 1940s and ends up in the 1890s. It emerges that Jack the Ripper was also a time traveller, and simply hid from the police in a different time. His disappearance is explained when he pursues Gary to the 1990s and is promptly run over by a bus.
Parodied by The Two Ronnies in their The Phantom Raspberry Blower Of Old London Town series of sketches, written by Spike Milligan (as you can immediately tell from the Goon-esque title).
In the Smallville episode "Cure", when the immortal Curtis Knox attempts to dissect Chloe for the concentration of Kryptonite near her heart, she calls him a "Jack the Ripper wannabe". Knox nonchalantly responds, "I was Jack the Ripper." It's also heavily implied that his true identity is Vandal Savage.
On Peep Show, Butt-Monkey Mark is offered a chance to give historical tours of London — he does a Ripper Walk with reluctance but eventually gets into character and enjoys it. This being Peep Show, it doesn't last.
In Murdoch Mysteries, Murdoch pursues a Toronto serial killer widely believed to be Jack the Ripper, with the assistance of a Scotland Yard detective who investigated the Whitechapel murders. The detective is revealed to be the Ripper, and is stabbed to death by Doctor Ogden when he attacks her in the morgue.
The Doctor Who episode "A Good Man Goes to War" reveals what put a stop to his killing spree - a Silurian detective named Vastra ate him. Apparently he was stringy.
The Hitcher in The Mighty Boosh is a Card-carrying Victorian Cockney who boasts about teaching Jack the Ripper everything he knew.
In The Collector, Jack the Ripper turns out to be a woman who sold her soul to the Devil for the power to turn into a man in order to kill without being caught. Specifically, Jack's last victim, Mary Kelly, was the Ripper.
Forever Knight portrayed the Ripper as a vampire who was somehow tainted, even as a human, so LaCroix was unable to finish draining him. He ordered Nick to kill him, but Nick did not, and the man went on to become Jack the Ripper. Later, he traveled around and was responsible for a number of other serial killer cases. He is eventually killed in a fire after attempting to attack Natalie in a car.
Criminal Minds, which regularly references real-life serial killers, has made several nods to the Ripper, including an episode centering around a gender-flipped reproduction of the murders carried out by a woman against male victims. There are also plenty of episodes featuring Jack the Ripoffs.
The Veil episode "Jack the Ripper" (1958) is a made-for-television film introduced by Boris Karloff, in which a clairvoyant identifies the Ripper as a respectable surgeon whose death has been faked to cover his incarceration in a lunatic asylum.
In an episode of The Twilight Zone (1959) from 1963 entitled "The New Exhibit", Martin Balsam plays the curator of a wax museum who becomes so obsessed by five wax figures of murderers, including Jack the Ripper, that he commits murder to protect them.
In the Cimarron Strip episode "Knife in the Wilderness", written by Harlan Ellison, Jack continues his work across America ending in Cimarron City where he meets his end at the hands of Indians.
In the Get Smart episode "House of Max", Jack the Ripper is an animated wax dummy.
In The Sixth Sense's "With Affection, Jack the Ripper" a man is driven mad during a paranormal experiment when he inhabits the body of Jack the Ripper.
A Fantasy Island episode, also titled "With Affection, Jack the Ripper", was written by the same writer as the episode of The Sixth Sense, Don Ingalls. Criminologist Lorraine Peters who uses a time portal to confirm her suspicion that Jack the Ripper was a doctor, Albert Fell. Fell follows her back through the portal, grabs Peters and takes her back to 1888, where the enigmatic Mr. Roarke intervenes fortuitously, and Fell dies moments later while fleeing.
In "A Rip in Time", the first episode of Timecop, a timetravelling cop travels back to 1888 to catch a criminal who has killed, and displaced, Jack the Ripper.
The 1973 series Jack The Ripper linked with the police drama Z Cars. The program featured Z Cars detectives Barlow and Watt investigating the murders from an historical perspective.
The centenary of the murders in 1988 led to the production of a big-budget CBS/Thames Television International Coproduction Mini Series simply titled Jack The Ripper, starring Michael Caine as Abberline. The series aroused some critical hostility for claiming to be highly historically accurate while actually engaging in heavy Very Loosely Based on a True Story. It fingered Sir William Gull for the killer, but dropped the royal-conspiracy elements to show Gull as simply a spontaneous homicidal maniac, with the conspiracy being solely to cover up his actions after he was caught.
In the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World's episode "The Knife", the explorers meet the two men blamed for the murders in Stephen Knight's royal conspiracy theory: Sir William Gull and Robert Anderson. The Ripper turns out to be both of them.
Ripper Street is set in Whitechapel in 1889, six months after the Ripper murders. The first episode sees detectives from London's H Division battle to solve murders they initially believe may have been committed by the infamous killer, but the conclusion prompts the chief inspector to resolve to move on from the Ripper case and focus on current cases. The seventh and eighth episodes see the department's medical examiner, Captain Homer Jackson, being framed for a new Ripper murder, but the team are able to prove his innocence.
The pilot of NBC's Dracula offhandedly mentions that the Ripper was a myth. The Order of the Dragon created him to cover up the murders committed by a vampire who'd been stalking the streets of London. They were the ones who sent the letters to the press and even mutilated the corpses so that no one could tell they'd been fed on.
Forever: During an episode featuring a Serial Killer copying various other famous serial killers, including Jack, flashbacks show that Henry was the doctor who examined the bodies of Jack's victims. Likewise, Adam also claims to have been in London at that time, implying that he was the Ripper, though this is never actually confirmed.
Jack himself never appeared in Friday the 13th: The Series, though a few of his possessions show up as cursed antiques. (A scalpel in "Doctor Jack", and a medical syringe in "Better off Dead")
On Grimm Jack the Ripper's spirit gets to work in modern Portland by possessing Captain Reynard. Turns out all his victims were Wesen prostitutes, leading to him appearing in the Grimm journals...almost a century earlier in Luxembourg. No one knows when or where his first spree was, but given his London accent and tendency to sing creepy Irish folk songs with Killarney changed to Whitechapel, either that was his most recent, he's originally from there, or it's just his favorite.
The short-lived series The Others had a psychic empath called Mark meet a woman called Mary Jane in their shared dreams, and for the two of them to fall in love over the course of the episode. Then it's discovered that Mary Jane is Mary Jane Kelly, the Ripper's fifth and final victim. Despite a desperate attempt to save her, he fails.
In the Murdoch Mysteries episode "Snakes and Ladders", Scotland Yard detective Edward Scanlon arrives in Toronto pursuing the serial killer Harland Orgill, who he suspects of being Jack the Ripper. It transpires that "Scanlon" is actually Orgill. Whether he's also the Ripper is unrevealed.
Wynonna Earp: Just before Wynonna sends him back to Hell, the revenant who calls himself Jack of Knives claims that he was the Ripper when he was human. While this is treated with skepticism in-universe, his MO certainly matches that of the other Jack.
Referenced in Penny Dreadful when Season 1's grisly werewolf killings lead to speculation that the Ripper had resumed his murders. This ends as of Season 2, presumably because the historical Jack, however evil, never committed any crime on the scale of the Mariners' Inn massacre.
The Made-for-TV Movie Terror at London Bridge has Jack's ghost haunting the titular structure after its brick-by-brick move to Arizona.
An episode of Sliders has them traveling to a parallel world where people who suffers mental health problems is sent to a Victorian London fictional world with actors so they can relax thinking they live in more simple times. Arturo is sent there and impersonates Sherlock Holmes. Problem is, someone is really killing prostitutes (actually actresses) Ripper-style.
In Legends of Tomorrow, Jack the Ripper is one of the Encores (dead villains brought back to life by Astra) who meet up in "The Great British Fake-Off". Since none of the others know what Jack looks like, John Constantine attempts to take his place. This doesn't go well, and Zari nearly becomes his next villain before he's sent back to Hell.
    Music 
Screaming Lord Sutch's "Jack The Ripper", which has been covered by many other artists, including the Gruesomes, The White Stripes, the Fuzztones, and The Horrors.
Jack the Ripper "sits at the head of the Chamber of Commerce" in Bob Dylan's surreal stream-of-consciousness song "Tombstone Blues".
Oddly enough, one without saying Jack The Ripper, Lordi's Blood Red Sandman, in which, Mr. Lordi claims to be Jack The Ripper by the way of using an alternative press nickname from the time, The Leather Apron.
Nick Cave did a song entitled "Jack The Ripper", which, ironically enough, is not a Murder Ballad. The protagonist is in a relationship with an abusive woman who, among other things, accuses him of being a sex maniac like Jack whenever he makes advances to her.
Macabre's "Jack The Ripper" is sung from the perspective of one of infamous letters.
"Mack the Knife", originiating in The Threepenny Opera, with later well-known renditions by Louis Armstrong, Bobby Darin, and Ella Fitzgerald in 1956, 1958 and 1960, with victim Louie Miller mysteriously vanishing after withdrawing his savings, and ladies Jenny Diver, Sukey Tawdry, Lotte Lenya and Lucy Brown forming a line as soon as "Mackie" Macheath is back in town.
Morrissey's "Jack The Ripper."
Iced Earth song "Jack" was inspired by Jack the Ripper.
There is a deathcore band called Whitechapel, named in reference to the area in which the murders were carried out. Their first album, The Somatic Defilement, is a Concept Album inspired by Jack the Ripper.
Thin Lizzy's "Killer on the Loose" makes many references to Jack the Ripper
"The Ripper" by Judas Priest
Motörhead
The song "Jack the Ripper" (from the album March ör Die) is about him coming back, hiding behind various disguises and one night appearing beside you in the night to claim your life.
Jack is alluded to in one verse of "Red Raw" (from the album Inferno), which is about crazy killers in general.
Monster in the gaslight, shivers in the cold, looking for a bad girl
"jack-the-ripper◆" by sasakure.UK
Vernian Process: The Curse of Whitechapel.
Swedish Power Metal band, Falconer, features the song, "Jack The Knife" about dear ol' Jack.
The Belgian Progressive Rock band Univers Zero's "Jack the Ripper" is a particularly terrifying song, despite being all instrumental.
Sigh's "In the Mind of a Lunatic"
    Radio 
I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again did a sketch retelling the story of Jack the Ripper with Jack as a mysterious figure who rampaged around London ripping people's underwear off. They performed a revised version for their 25th anniversary show.
Sergeant: We've got to stop him sir, the people are losing patience- and their knickers!
In the third episode of TAPS Para-radio, hosts Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson of Ghost Hunters fame made light of the fact that one of the suspected Jack the Rippers, Aaron Kosminski, was a hairdresser.
    Tabletop Games 
In the Dungeons & Dragons campaign setting Ravenloft, the darklord Malken was an amalgam of Jack the Ripper and Mister Hyde: A serial killer who was the evil alter ego of Nova Vaasa's good-hearted ruler, Sir Tristen Hiregaard.
There is also a monster in the extraneous source book Cityscape, that is called a Ripper. Although it isn't human it is an obvious reference due to its ability to hide among humanity and serial killer nature.
Another domain, Paridon (a not-quite Victorian London setting— no gaslights and almost no firearms) has its very own Ripper, "Bloody Jack," who kills every 13 years. It's actually a series of non-human killers harvesting... something... for the domain's darklord.
And the domain of Invidia (at least in 2nd Edition) had the Midnight Slasher stalking the streets killing women who was actually female herself. The domain's then-darklord had an affair with her father, driving him to kill his wife and then himself. As a final act, the darklord then kissed the child (who had witnessed the deaths) on the forehead, driving her into madness and pathological hatred.
One of the included adventures in the Masque of the Red Death setting had the heroes investigating the actual Ripper murders (on a more supernatural version of Earth). The killer turned out to be the deranged spirit of a doctor's dead wife possessing the bodies of homeless men.
Hunter: The Vigil has it that Jack the Ripper stopped killing (in a manner the public would notice) because he became a member of The Ashwood Abbey, who felt they could direct his darker impulses in more constructive directions (or rather, destruction directed towards the supernatural). This proved ineffective, as he repeatedly relapsed into killing innocents, though the Abbey tried to cover it up. They finally decided to do away with him, since even depraved, hedonistic, wealthy thrill-seekers have standards. They gave him the concession of not eating him, something he apparently did.
Death wasn't the end of Jack, though. When he died, he spawned a spirit of murder incarnate, who still stalks Britain to this day.
The folks at The Wraith Project made his knife into a Dark Artifact.
The default Mutants & Masterminds campaign setting has Jack-a-Knives, a Jack the Ripper interpretation as a possessing spirit.
Savage Worlds campaign setting "Rippers" features the Big Bad "Jack" who was one of the first Rippers. The Rippers get their name from their habit of ripping parts from monsters and implanting them into themselves . By the game's time, Jack is so deformed that he needs to rip human parts in order to survive.
The Dracula Dossier gives the GM the option of bringing Jack into the campaign (Stoker himself included the Ripper killings as part of the Icelandic edition of Dracula). One of the ways to kill him is listed as "being beamed into interstellar space to dissipate".
    Theater 
Frank Wedekind's play Pandora's Box has the protagonist Lulu finally dying as an East End prostitute, murdered by Jack, as described in the film section above.
Jill The Ripper is a play based around the theory that Jack The Ripper was a woman.
In a case of art imitating life, one of the possible suspects for the Ripper was Richard Mansfield, whose claim to fame began with a stage production of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. His performance was so good that people began to suspect it wasn't an act, and to dispel the rumors he did comedies for a while.
In the Mrs. Hawking series, part VI: Fallen Women has the protagonist Mrs. Hawking hunt down Jack the Ripper.
    Video Games 
In the 8-bit era, a Text Adventure called simply Jack The Ripper was released for the ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64, and Amstrad CPC. It was the first game ever in the UK to be rated "18" by the British Board of Film Classification, due to its graphic murder scene images. The Ripper is working for supernatural entities wanting to bring about the decay and destruction of the world, but is stopped just in time by the protagonist.
In the Knight's Court area of Marleybone in Wizard101, a (literal) cat burglar known as Jacques the Scratcher has been attacking and robbing (or "scratching" as they call it) local women, and Scotland Yard requests your help in tracking him down.
MediEvil 2 has a boss named "The Ripper" who runs around 1800s Whitechapel and kills prostitutes. You do the math. He kills Sir Dan's love interest, leading Dan into a 10-Minute Retirement... until he finds a time machine.
Arcanum has the 'Whytechurch Murderer', who prowls the streets of Caladon's Whytechurch district butchering prostitutes. The killer shares his body with a powerful demon, and is forced to murder for the demon's amusement.
The Virtual Boy game Jack Bros had an adorable Super-Deformed Jack the Ripper as one of the playable characters, along with Jack Frost and Jack O'Lantern.
This is a reference to Shin Megami Tensei where Jack Frost and Jack O'Lantern/Mad Jack are in nearly every game, and Jack the Ripper is their slightly-less-commonly-recurring "brother."
Shadowman had a plot about a demon called Legion gathering five serial killers and using magic to make them immortal as part of a plan to bring about The End of the World as We Know It. Four of the killers were fictional but the fifth was Jack the Ripper, the game also reveals that Jack killed and dissected the women in the hopes of discovering their souls and the murders stopped after he followed Legion to a hellish afterlife to construct his Evil Tower of Ominousness. In the game he is portrayed as having a cockney accent, and a walking style similar to Mick Jagger's.
In the computer game adaptation of Space1889, you may encounter (and fight) Jack the Ripper while exploring London.
Sakuya Izayoi, of the Touhou series has a spellcard in Perfect Cherry Blossom and Imperishable Night called "Jack the Ripper." Appropriate, considering her attacks consist of throwing thousands upon thousands of knives at enemies. Her other spellcards in her boss appearance also have a "serial killer" theme, being called "Another Murder" or "Killer Doll".
When she's not making references with them. Illusion World [The World] anyone?
Jack from the Dreamcast fighting game, Power Stone, nicknamed "Jack the Slayer" is an insane and psychotic serial killer who takes delight in murdering people with a pair of knives and looting the corpses.
In the Adventure Game Wax Works, one of the scenarios has Jack the Ripper as the protagonist's demon-possessed twin brother. Your job is to hunt him down and kill him without getting caught by a lynch mob or the police.
In City of Heroes, a set of bones in the Atlas Park MAGI office are noted to have been housed in the British Museum during the Jack the Ripper killings, which stopped after the bones were placed under MAGI's care in Paragon City.
Fallout 3 contains chainsaw swords called Rippers, and one of them is a unique model called Jack.
The adventure game by Frogwares, Sherlock Holmes Versus Jack the Ripper. Perhaps notable in that the player character collects evidence that positively identifies one (historical) person as the murderer, but he isn't arrested for it since the real killer was never caught. Many genuine suspects questioned by the police of the day are encountered along the way, and the game's designers incorporate real documents, physical evidence, and maps of the area from the actual Whitechapel investigation into the mystery. The in-game culprit is a vengeful Jewish butcher who'd contracted syphilis from a prostitute and passed it on to his family, leaving one of his sons disfigured. Rather than report him to the police and risk kicking off huge anti-Semitic riots, Holmes arranges for the Jewish community to quietly apprehend the man and keep him imprisoned until the disease finishes him off.
In World Heroes 2 Jet and Perfect, there's one character simply called "Jack". The game's based around Time Travel, so of course it's the Jack. He uses Freddy Krueger-esque claws and foot-mounted knives to battle, has a red mohawk, and tends to get a bit... messy. His intro pose shows him in Victorian-era garb, which he shreds.
Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow features an enemy called "Ripper", a recolor of the already annoying Fleaman who is turned into an actual threat by his troublesome habit of hurling knives.
A Vampyre Story mentions a "Jack the Gimper"-there's even an autographed photograph in the protagonist's bedroom. It's implied that you'll have to deal with him in the sequel.
The Metal Gear Solid series has Raiden (birth name Jack), whose skill relies heavily on blades, stealth, and speed. His alias during his past as an unusually skilled child soldier was Jack the Ripper.
In Raiden's spin-off game, Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance, Sam and Monsoon manage to make Raiden realize that he's been using his self-proclaimed "heroic causes" as an excuse to avoid admitting to himself that he's been killing for the enjoyment of it. Once Raiden accepts his true nature, he is able to enter Ripper Mode, during which his attacks devastate enemy armor and he is able to slice through cuttable enemies without entering Blade Mode. Also he glows red and laughs psychotically.
In 1996, there was a Full Motion Video game called Ripper. Taking place in the future, the killer involved was clearly ripping off Jack in every way except the victims. The new Ripper kills former members of a roleplaying club by way of making them explode from the inside via cyberspace. The culprit is one of four people decided randomly.
Assassin's Creed: Syndicate, the 2015 game set in Victorian London has a Story DLC titled "Jack the Ripper", dealing with the fallout of his crimes in which it's revealed that Jack the Ripper was a rogue Assassin who took over the London cell and was attempting to enforce the Brotherhood through fear and chaos. After the events of the DLC, all evidence of his identity was destroyed to prevent compromising the Brotherhood any further.
Before that, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood featured an Expy, Malfatto, a corrupt doctor who is basically Italian Renaissance Jack The Ripper.
Jack the Ripper appears in the Nintendo 64 game Duke Nukem Zero Hour as a boss during the 1800s London levels. However, he's treated as a throwaway boss character and nothing more. Still, the game shows that Jack was stopped by a time-traveling Duke Nukem.
Disgaea: Hour of Darkness features a monster class named Lantern, a scarecrow with a few special attacks with "Jack" in their name, including "Jack The Ripper". The fourth tier is even named "Jack".
One of the cases in Floor 13 features young women being gruesomely murdered in the docklands area and a member of the Royal Family as a prime suspect.
Fallen London has "Jack-of-Smiles" an obvious Expy of Jack the Ripper, although Jack-of-Smiles is rather more supernatural, being as he can Body Surf. Every so often, someone commits a Jack murder or two and is either killed or detained. The player may investigate this, and eventually discover that Jack is the knives. Knives made in a specific workshop in Polythreme occasionally possess people holding them, turning them into Jacks, at least until they drop the knife. The player is then given the choice of destroying the workshop, ending Jack forever or learning the truth of who created it: The Masters, naturally, as part of a failed experiment that they'd prefer ended but were too lazy to deal with. The player may also (if they pay Fate) temporarily BECOME Jack.
In the game adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, a Chocolate Frog reveals that Jack the Ripper was actually a vampire named Herbert Varney and he was slain in early 1889 after a specially-trained Ministry task-force was sent after him.
Jack the Ripper appears in the Sega platform game Master of Darkness.
In Splatterhouse, Dr. Henry West became the mysterious Jack the Ripper after a series of murders he committed, as he claimed to be "bored" while in London.
When the time-set in Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs is 1899, aka Victorian London, in the streets of The Ripper's old haunts (such as Bucks Row and Hansbury Street), it's essentially expected for him to be mentioned, which he is in the protagonist's journals. It's also said that the professor who visits him performed autopsies on his female victims, as well as the strong hint that Mandus experimented on him or made him one of his manpigs. However, he's only briefly mentioned, and is practically irrelevant to the story itself.
I am to have a visitor, the distinguished Professor A. He is come to ascertain my mental well-being after my prolonged absence from the club. But I am not stupid. He is here to spy for them. When they stalked The Ripper, he was often called to pontificate upon lacerations and missing organs. And now he comes to me, to doff and wheedle and 'my dear sir' and 'but you must still grieve' and 'perhaps just a quick look at your engines, the triumph of the age'. He knows nothing of loss, nothing of sacrifice. But to refuse? That would simply poke the hornet's nest, invite a swarm of interlopers and thieves. I must entertain this buffoon and submit to his intrusion. Perhaps I should show him the tripery. See whether his stomach, so trained by rummaging in the innards of clumsily vivisected whores, is strong enough to stare into the real engines of his golden age. I may even introduce him to Jack, or his sons at least. We have stronger locks on the windows now, and we bring their toys to them.
In RuneScape, a demon named The Ripper is mentioned in the quest "One Piercing Note", in connection with the recent murder of several nuns in a convent. Rippers were implemented as a Slayer monster in November 2015. The murderer at the convent was one of the nuns.
In a backstory blog for Star Trek Online, it's revealed that Jack the Ripper is actually an alien entity that possesses people and had stopped by Earth temporarily for a few murders. The intervention of both the Na'khul and members of the 29th century Starfleet would force it to go off-planet once more.
The 2003 adventure game Jack the Ripper had the Ripper travel to New York after leaving London in 1888, and the game picks up thirteen years later in 1901. The player takes on the role of a New York reporter who discovers that a recent string of murders share the same MO as the original murders and inadvertently comes face to face with the killer himself.
The Order: 1886 has Jack as one of the game's main antagonists, a vampire who stalks the city at night so that he can find victims to feed upon.
In We Happy Few, the legend of Jack the Ripper has been turned by Wellington Wells into a boogeyman for children, known as "Foggy Jack"; it's said that if you go out into the fog at night after curfew, he'll "take" you and you'll never be seen again. A list of victims found at the "O" Courant makes the connection explicit, as the listed names match those of the Ripper's.
    Visual Novels 
In Van Helsing's route of Code:Realize, Jack the Ripper is identified as a man named Jack Blackman and has been apprehended once, but escaped from custody and set up shop in the sewers, wearing a harlequin mask to hide his face as he stalks and butchers women. Jack was one of the subjects of Hidden Strength, a program which tried to create Super Soldiers by torturing them physically and emotionally until their minds broke and unlocked Power Born of Madness; unfortunately, the process also left them uncontrollably deranged. Jack's insane ramblings suggest that he focuses his homicidal impulses on women he sees as "impure" because his mother abused him when he was a child and Hidden Strength has irrevocably locked him into that trauma.
    Web Comics 
The main antagonist of Mayonaka Densha possibly.
In this comic (the third one on the page) by Warren Ellis, Saucy Jack finally reveals his identity (Note: this version does not avert Murderers Are Rapists.)
    Web Original 
Everyman HYBRID gives us the villainous HABIT, an entity capable of Demonic Possession. He boasts a rather long Historical Rap Sheet, which includes being Jack the Ripper. A bit of (perhaps unintended) Fridge Brilliance arises from this: Jack the Ripper was never caught because HABIT possessed a different person for each kill.
Epic Rap Battles of History has Jack the Ripper (played by nerdcore rapper Dan Bull) battling against Hannibal Lecter (played by series co-creator Epic Lloyd).
During the second episode of the High Priestess mini-arc of Vaguely Recalling JoJo, Jack the Ripper does a filk song based on the Japanese 24 commercials.
    Western Animation 
The Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Trials of the Demon!" was apparently based on the Ripper murders (made Lighter and Softer so as to be allowed in such a show) with the Ripper replaced with the Gentleman Ghost and the murders substituted with reversible "soul stealing". The story had Batman in his Gotham By Gaslight costume, and Whitechapel is actually mentioned. Sherlock Holmes gets thrown in for good measure.
On the X-Men episode "Descent", a man implied to be the Ripper showed up in the employ of Nathaniel Essex, he who would become Mr. Sinister.
Additionally, Sinister refers to him as "Jack" and also takes credit for giving him life.
Had Spider-Man: The Animated Series been renewed for a sixth season, there would've been a story arc in which Carnage would be sent to Victorian London through a dimensional wormhole and would commit the Ripper murders (Offscreen, obviously.)
In The Simpsons episode "Eternal Moonshine of the Simpson Mind", Chief Wiggum asks sarcastically to a fleeing Homer, "Well then, if you know everything, who was Jack the Ripper?" to which Homer replies "The Queen's private surgeon". Chief Wiggum has only one response, "Wow."
In Family Guy, Quagmire, somewhat unsurprisingly, was Jack the Ripper in a past life.
Jack the Ripper shows up briefly in Futurama when the virtual reality program Kif and Amy are in malfunctions.
In Total Drama World Tour, Chris hires Jack the Ripper for a challenge in which the contestants have to catch him to win. It's really Ezekiel in a costume.
In the time travel episode of Celebrity Deathmatch, Johnny and Nick witnessed Sherlock Holmes fight Jack the Ripper. In the episode, Jack is portrayed as an Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain who can't seem to hit who he's aiming at, while Holmes is portrayed as an Idiot Hero who is oblivious to what's going on. Sherlock Holmes won (accidently), only after Jack murdered Watson.
The DuckTales (1987) episode "Dr Jekyll and Mr McDuck" featured a mysterious London criminal known as Jack the Tripper.
    Real Life 
In February 2010, in the Dutch city of Lelystad, a serial stabber was nicknamed "Jack de Prikker" (Jack the Stabber) by Dutch media.
Serial killer Jack the Stripper was named after the original.
A number of other serial killers have been known as "...Ripper" in reference to Jack, most notoriously Peter Sutcliffe, the "Yorkshire Ripper" of the 1970s.
Jackson Pollock's paintings earned him the sardonic nickname "Jack the Dripper."
The Other Wiki devotes a whole article to the nearly 30 individuals who have been seriously proposed as suspects for the Whitechapel murders, with varying degrees of plausibility. Apparently it might be anyone from a vast conspiracy to... Lewis Carroll.

Useful Notes / Jesus
"For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counseller, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace."
— Isaiah 9:6 (KJV)
A Jewish rabbi believed by Christians to be God incarnate in a man who died and rose again, and believed by Muslims to be a prophet. Probably didn't need to swim.
Yeshua, commonly romanized as "Jesus," was the supposed son of a carpenter (or joiner) named Yosefnote  and a young woman (possibly a virgin) named Mariamnote , born in Nazareth (or Bethlehem) in Roman Judea, some time between 8 BC/BCE and 6 AD/CEnote . He excelled in Torah study, became a rabbi, and began preaching in Judea aged around thirty. His message was mainly of love, peace, mercy, kindness, charity, forgiveness, and compassion (most of which were considered signs of weakness in Ancient Rome, to one degree or another). He also gave some trenchant criticisms of the religious Powers that Be on the subject of their corrupt practices, and He is said to have performed many miracles. Accused of defying Mosaic law and challenging the authority of Rome, He was sentenced to crucifixion by Roman procurator Pontius Pilatus (a.k.a. Pontius Pilate) and executed in Jerusalem around 30 AD/CE.
The Four Gospels say He was arrested and, despite being innocent of any wrongdoing, crucified after being betrayed by Judas Iscariot (Yehudah of Kerioth/Yehudah the Sicarius) as part of a conspiracy among Judea's corrupt high priesthood (often conflated with the Jewish population as a whole by antisemitic Christians due to some rather poor word choices on the priests' parts and possible embellishment by the Apostles within the context of a worsening Christian diaspora), but returned Back from the Dead 3 days later.note  He appeared before His Disciples (minus Judas, who was dead by that point) and many others before ascending to Heaven. The New Testament is mostly about Him, His life, His sayings, and His deeds, and is the second part of the Bible. It concludes by prophesying He will return a second time to defeat Satan once and for all and set up His kingdom on Earth.
There are numerous views and speculations about Jesus' nature and deeds. Jesus is probably best known as the founder and central figure of Christianity. Most Christians believe that Jesus Christ (from Christos, "anointed", from the Hebrew word Mashiach, "Messiah") is no less than the Son of God as well as being the incarnation of God on Earth.note  Needless to say, this makes Jesus the Big Good of the Christian faith.
Muslims acknowledge Jesus (whose name they translate as Isa) as the second-greatest prophet after Muhammad himself. However, they dismiss the idea that any human can be the Son of God or an aspect of God, but do believe that Jesus was born of a virgin mother and will someday return to Earth. They also believe that Jesus did not die on the cross, as God intervened to prevent it, carrying Jesus's physical body to Heaven. Jewish teachings vary on whether they acknowledge Jesus or not (and of course the Jewish version of the Bible— the Tanakh— doesn't include the New Testament at all), but almost all would argue that, despite any good qualities, he's not the Messiah. Gnostic teachings maintain that Jesus was a spiritual being sent to teach us how to Ascend to a Higher Plane of Existence, but these are considered unorthodox by most Christians. And even people who don't fit into any of the above religions may still believe Jesus Was Way Cool.
Outside the context of scripture, there's plenty of evidence to indicate that Jesus was, in fact, a real person— so much so that the idea of Him being a fictional character is widely considered a fringe theory at best by Biblical scholars and even non-Biblical historians. While the divinity of Jesus is most definitely a matter of debate between different faiths and between religious, atheistic, and agnostic folks, for all intents and purposes the idea that a first-century Jew named Jesus existed, taught a reformist perspective of Mosaiac law, and was executed by the Romans in His 30's after being presided over by Pontius Pilate is widely agreed upon as historical truth (even the Romans themselves had independent documentation about at least the crucifixion). In His lifetime, the people who weren't interested in His teachings generally regarded Him as the contemporary equivalent of a hippie at best and a dangerously subversive radical at worst, which in hindsight makes His teachings probably the biggest example of being Vindicated by History in light of Christianity becoming one of the most widely-practiced and accepted organized religions on Earth. That said, most historians agree that Jesus' end goal wasn't to create a brand new religion or even a distinct sect of Judaism, but rather to break away from increasingly literal interpretation of the Torah and try to offer a more nuanced reading that better captured the intended meanings behind the scripture at a time when Judea's religious oligarchy had become horrendously corrupt and eager to use literal interpretation to serve their own ends.
In any case, there's one more important thing to note: Christ is not Jesus' last name, but His title designating His role as Messiah and Savior. It comes from the Greek Christos, meaning "anointed", in turn a translation of Māšîăḥ. This is why phrases like "The Passion of the Christ" make sense. Note that this also means that referring to Jesus as "Christ" or "Jesus Christ", rather than just "Jesus", constitutes an implied claim that Jesus was, in fact, the Messiah, and thus should be avoided when you're trying to draw a distinction between the Christian view and the "historical" secular view of Jesus. Those who wish to refer to Jesus in a secular or historical way can refer to him as simply Jesus, as he's pretty well known, or Jesus of Nazarethnote  if you want to be specific ("Jesús" is a fairly common male name in Spain and Latin America, and to be honest the word "Jesus" is the result of a game of interlingual telephone for "Yeshua"—a name that appears in the Old Testament, where it is translated "Joshua"note ). Yehoshua in itself is Hebrew for "Jehovah salvages" or "Jehovah is salvation" which is pretty appropriate.
Trope Namer for:
Bigger Than Jesus
Clone Jesus
Crystal Dragon Jesus
Everyone Is Jesus in Purgatory
Hijacked by Jesus
Hippie Jesus
If Jesus, Then Aliens
Jesus Taboo
Jesus: The Early Years
Jesus Was Crazy
Jesus Was Way Cool
Kung-Fu Jesus
Looks Like Jesus
No Such Thing as Space Jesus
No Such Thing as Wizard Jesus
Pals with Jesus
Real Men Love Jesus
Also directly inspired the following tropes:
All-Loving Hero
Away in a Manger
Crucified Hero Shot
Go and Sin No More
Good Samaritan
Good Shepherd
A House Divided
Incorruptible Pure Pureness
"Last Supper" Steal
Messianic Archetype
Never Accepted in His Hometown
The Paragon
Passion Play
Pietà Plagiarism
Second Coming
Turn the Other Cheek
Walk on Water
And, indirectly:
The Antichrist
Anti-Antichrist
What Would X Do?
Works about Him:
Anime and Manga
Jo Jos Bizarre Adventure Steel Ball Run, in which He appears as a recurring character, with the remnants of His corporeal body also serving as the series' MacGuffin.
My Last Day, a short Anime depicting the Passion.
Saint Young Men, pals with Buddha
Art
Gustave Doré's illustrations (of The Bible, Paradise Lost, and the Paradiso) keep a pretty standardized picture of Jesus throughout, with the beard, long hair, a mostly naturalistic Holy Halo, and gestures of teaching/benediction featuring throughout his many works, even those where Jesus hasn't incarnated yet.
Michelangelo:
The Conversion of Saul depicts Jesus shooting a beam of light down from the Heavens towards Saul.
The Doni Tondo shows the (quite muscular) infant Jesus being handed over between Joseph and Mary.
The Risen Christ is a sculpture of Jesus casually holding the cross while relaxing in his glorified body.
His Pieta depicts Jesus' unblemished corpse held in the arms of his youthful mother.
Raphael:
The Disputation of the Sacrament depicts Christ enthroned, with God the Father above him and the dove of the Holy Spirit descending into the Eucharist, communicating the doctrines of the Trinity and the Real Presence.
The Transfiguration shows Jesus surrounded by light and floating above his followers.
Sistine Chapel:
The altar painting sees Christ making the Last Judgement while shrouded by light.
One of the walls of the Chapel is dedicated to six portraits telling the life of Christ, from his nativity through his temptation, ministry, death, and resurrection.
Leonardo da Vinci:
The Last Supper depicts Christ amidst his confused Apostles.
The Christ Child in The Virgin of the Rocks sports a circular, hollow halo and makes a sign of benediction towards the infant John the Baptist, who is bowing in adoration of his cousin.
Comic Books
Jesus is a recurring character in Ghost Rider, always there to help Johnny Blaze through some of his toughest spots. Interestingly, he is never referred to by name because Johnny can't bring himself to admit who he is.
Fan Works
Child of the Storm features an average-looking Middle Eastern man named Joshua, who occasionally appears to Harry to give him good advice. Harry is floored when he realises who that is.
Harry: Jesus fucking Christ!
The Empath: The Luckiest Smurf story "Smurfed Behind: The Passion Of The Smurfs", where the time-traveling Smurfs appear during the final week of Jesus' life before His crucifixion.
Film
From the Manger to the Cross (1912), one of the first feature films ever made.
The Gospel According to St. Matthew, in which Jesus is depicted as more of an angry rabble-rouser.
The Gospel of John
Jesus (1979), a word-for-word adaptation of the Gospel of Luke with Brian Deacon in the title role.
The King of Kings, a silent film by the director of The Ten Commandments.
King of Kings, a 1961 Epic Movie narrated by Orson Welles.
The Gospel According to St. Matthew, a 1964 Italian film with the dialogue ripped straight from Matthew.
The Greatest Story Ever Told, an 1965 Epic Movie with starring Max von Sydow.
Monty Python's Life of Brian gives him a bit part in the beginning (reciting the Sermon on the Mount), and features a man whose life parallels his to an extent.
The Nativity Story
The Last Temptation of Christ, a novel and film which paint Jesus as a flawed man whose life goes differently at the Crucifixion.
Parable, an allegorical short film featuring Jesus as a circus clown.
The Passion of the Christ, a film centered around the Eucharist, the Virgin Mary, and graphic torture.
Risen, a mystery story about two Centurions investigating the Resurrection.
Son of God, a Compilation Movie adapted from the History Channel's The Bible.
The Visual Bible: Matthew
Last Days In The Desert, where Ewan McGregor plays Jesus during his temptations in the desert.
The Young Messiah
Literature
The Bible, of course.
The Four Gospels are specifically about Jesus' life, death, and resurrection.
He makes a cameo in Acts of the Apostles, appearing to Saul (Paul) on the road to Damascus.
The Book of Revelation, which depicts a vision of Jesus' Second Coming.
Outside of these books considered canonical by most churches (the Orthodox church has always been a bit iffy on Revelation), there's numerous works of apocrypha where his authority is used to affirm whatever religious or philosophical notion contained therein, primarily amongst the Gnostics.
The Qur'an. As explained above in the introduction, Jesus is considered a great prophet of Islam, second only to The Prophet Muhammad himself. His life and teachings constitute a significant part of the Qu'ran.
The Book of Mormon, climaxing with his post-resurrection visit to the American continent.
The Divine Comedy explores the aftermath of Christ's descent into Hell and Dante sees Him within the Godhead at the end of the poem.
Left Behind, in which Jesus shows up near the end of the series to defeat The Antichrist.
Paradise Lost imagines his role in casting the rebellious angels out of Heaven and into Hell.
Ben-Hur, the novel and films, features Jesus as a supporting character.
Lamb: The Gospel According To Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal, a very Affectionate Parody.
Aslan, the lion god of Narnia in The Chronicles of Narnia, literally is Jesus according to C. S. Lewis, and repeats Broad Strokes of parts of the Bible in books one, two, and seven (respectively Genesis, The Four Gospels, and Revelation).
Music
Messiah by George Frederic Handel, an oratorio in three sections, depicting the prophesy of the coming Messiah, the Passion, and Resurrection, respectively. The page quote gets its own chorus, with Melismatic Vocals out the wazoo, as was common in Handel's time.
The Seven Last Words of Christ, an orchestral suite (later arranged into a string quartet, and then an oratorio) by Joseph Haydn, is a musical depiction of the seven last utterances of Jesus before His death on the cross.
Radio
The Man Born to Be King, twelve radio plays depicting Jesus's story in highly modern language.
Television
Jesus (1999)
Jesus Christ: Vampire Hunter
Jesus of Nazareth, a 1977 television mini-series.
ABS-CBN's May Bukas Pa, a 2009 children's religious drama series, which depicts an orphan boy interacting with Jesus.
Some episodes of The History Channel's The Bible.
Some episodes of NBC's AD: The Bible Continues, a follow-up series to the above.
Black Jesus, a Divine Race Lift in present day Compton, Played for Laughs.
Some episodes of American Gods (2017)
The History Bites episode "Rebel With a Cause", which depicts Jesus' final week in Jerusalem from the perspective of the Romans.
Theatre
Jesus Christ Superstar, a 1970 rock opera and Broadway musical focusing on Judas and Christ.
Godspell, a 1971 musical based on the parables of Jesus.
Hero, a modernized 2003 rock opera telling of the Gospel.
Western Animation
The Miracle Maker, a stop-motion film told through the eyes of a Jewish Ill Girl.
The Star, a computer animated film about his birth story told from the perspective of various animals.
Nestor, the Long-Eared Christmas Donkey, Nestor helps Jesus' parents, Mary and Joseph, get to Bethlehem. Jesus has a small appearance as a newborn baby towards the end.
The Little Drummer Boy, a stop-motion television special based on the Christmas carol of the same name. Like Nestor The Long Eared Christmas Donkey, Jesus appears towards the end as a newborn baby.
For more tropes that describe Jesus, try the character page for The Four Gospels.
See also the Useful Notes pages for Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and Gnosticism.
Not to be confused with the manga Jesus, about a hitman-turned-teacher.
Alternative Title(s): Christ, Jesus Christ

Video Game / All Points Bulletin
APB: All Points Bulletin (now APB: Reloaded) is a Massively Multiplayer Online Action Game, clearly inspired by the Grand Theft Auto series and developed by Real Time Worlds, creators of Crackdown. The players can play either as Enforcers or as Criminals of San Paro — for each side there are two factions (Prentiss Tigers and Praetorians for Enforcers, and G-Kings and Blood Roses for Criminals), each with its own bonuses and unlockable content.
One of the most important features is customization. During a presentation on Game Developers Conference, the creators showed lookalikes of Peter Molyneux, Richard Garriott, Warren Spector and Shigeru Miyamoto, complete with logos of their respective companies (or, in Miyamoto's case, the Mario sprite and boxers with the 1UP mushroom pattern) on their clothing. In a later gameplay, Mark Rein's character sports the U logo on his back.
Due to a disastrous launch phase and lackluster sales that fell far below predictions, Realtime Worlds was placed into administration in August 2010, and on September 16, 2010, the future of the game was sealed when Realtime Worlds announced that the servers would be shutting down soon after. However, GamersFirst picked up the game, renamed it "APB: Reloaded", and in December 2011, released the beta on its own and on Steam. The game is now Free-to-Play. The game was ported to the Xbox One in 2016 and the Playstation 4 in 2017.
Now currently owned by Little Orbit.
Not To Beconfused With the Atari arcade game of the same name.
This game provides examples of:
A.K.A.-47: Both the cars and weapons are fictional, but you can recognize at least the AK47, H&K USP, G36, MP7, Desert Eagle and fifth-generation Ford Mustang (named "Patriot Jericho" in the game).
And Your Reward Is Clothes: In the original gaining standing with organizations and spending time in the clothing editor gave you customizable clothes, while gaining standing with contacts gave you preset ones, in case you're lazy and don't want to fiddle with the editor, but still have something decent-looking on. Preordering also granted you two different sets of clothing, one for Criminal characters, one for Enforcers. Original closed beta testers also got a special shirt called "The Lousy Shirt," which says "I was in the APB beta and all I got was... MULTIPLE BULLET WOUNDS" (beta testers for the Reloaded version received a permanent shotgun instead). In the Reloaded version all clothes, predesigned and designable are now unlocked via contact standing, forcing you to grind hours to get access to things like boots. With 1.8.0 you can also now give your guns some preset skins for cosmetics. Almost all are cash-shop only, but a few can be unlocked through ranking progression or finishing a weapon role.
Armor Is Useless: The game offers bullet proof vests for both sexes as cloth items and the ARMAS shop offers a full suit. They are purely cosmetic and offer no real protection ingame.
Arms Dealer: Tyron Sennet and Grayson Fell. Since the introduction of the Joker Shop in the Reloaded version, the eponymous Wilde, creator of Wilde Designs. Her family also owns Obeya.
Artificial Stupidity: The civilian NPCs have a tendency to run straight in front of your car, your firefight, or call the police... when you are the police.
Awesome, but Impractical:
The OSMAW rocket launcher can one-shot virtually anything if it hits, but it only carries 4 rockets, and features a lengthy wind-up time upon firing. Very few vehicles in San Paro can withstand a rocket, but its epicenter radius of 2 meters means you'll essentially need direct impacts to kill soft targets normally. This is... not easy due to painfully slow projectiles.
The LTL weapons might count. They are harder to use than the regular weapons but there is nothing more satisfying than arresting a crim. Not to mention the standing and cash bonuses.
Ax-Crazy: Lilith Bloodrose. An interesting Beware the Nice Ones example, as she often tells you to kill people in an eerily calm voice.
Bag of Spilling: GamersFirst allows you to import your character from the retail version. You keep your clothes and some other customizations, but lose all your gear, including cars. Which happened because several gameplay aspects were changed. For example, damage enhancing mods are gone completely and the mod that increased stun recovery became a permanent ability of player characters.
Bare Your Midriff: Tons of outfits for the ladies allow for this.
Battering Ram: The Enforcers have these when the player is to breach a door or car to get to an item.
Big Bad Wannabe:
Seung Bloodrose. He's constantly rambling about how he's better than his cousin Jeung and how he's gonna build his own empire one day.
Jeung has shades of this, since he thinks he is leading the Blood Roses, completely unaware of the fact that Simeone technically displaced him in hierarchy, and Simeone himself is being manipulated by Luke Waskawi.
Bling-Bling-BANG!: Most guns can be equipped with a gold skin, complete with either wooden or black synthetic furniture. The cash-shop ACT44 Golden Marksman established the trope before the skins were introducing, being a Desert Eagle clone with an extended barrel, scope, and gold finish.
Blood Knight: Tiptoe. She simply loves fighting the Enforcers and causing mahyem, what prevents her from being Ax-Crazy like Lilith is that she is completely sane and well aware of what she is doing and causing.
Blown Across the Room: All player characters are subject to ragdolls upon death. Also, bullets have a set force that will affect ragdolls (but not living, breathing players). Shooting and killing someone in mid-air with one of the sniper rifles will send the body flying several meters. Other weapons can do it too, but just not as often.
Boring, but Practical: The Joker SR15 carbine and Obeya FBW pistol. Both are semi-auto firearms with reasonably high fire-rate caps and above-average accuracy, allowing for versatile usage. The humble starter STAR 556 is also far from useless.
Break Out the Museum Piece: The Colby M-1922. The one you get from Tip Toe is even stated to be stolen from a museum.
Bribing Your Way to Victory:
APB has "G1 credits" you can use to buy neat stuff with. It's not really needed though, as a player with decent marksmanship skills can take on any foe with the starting rifle.
The "pay 2 win" debates have been going on in the G1 forums for quite some time. For the most part, premium weapons in G1's cash shop play differently than its closest non-premium counterparts (ie. STAR 556 'LCR' versus STAR 556, N-HVR 223 'Scout' versus N-HVR 762), and they mainly provide advancement for the cost of money instead of having to grind through contacts and roles. Also, you get a unique weapon that most people don't have.
Bunny-Ears Lawyer: Many player characters look rather weird or hillarious, however this doesn't stop their players from being good at the game.
Car Fu: For a good start of Mark Rein's video, someone gets run over for the lulz. The same thing happens in The Stinger for PAX'09 trailer. This can be surprisingly difficult to pull off due to the flighty driving physics (think Halo 3), but merely touching someone with a speeding car can kill them.
Color-Coded for Your Convenience: Enforcer characters on the concept art usually wear white and blue. Criminal characters, black and red.
Subverted in the full game in which the colors are more diverse and more of a backround theme. Bloodroses still keep to the black and red theme, however G-Kings have an acid-green theme, Praetorians olive green (with occasional dark blue and black) and Prentiss Tigers mixing in varsity forms of yellow, navy blue, and white.
Also subverted for most players who will just use what ever colors they want, making the red or green name and the faction tag the only way to seperate Enforcer players from Criminal players.
Cool Car: Muscle cars, sports cars, SUVs, take your pick.
Cowboy Cop: This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.A Cowboy Cop Is You if you play as an Enforcer.
Crapsack World: San Paro might be sunny all year long, but the world is not pretty to live in. When murderous psychopaths are displayed on the covers of fashion magazines for their stylish clothes you know something is definetly wrong.
Curb-Stomp Battle: Matchmaking can easily result in new players with little experience and just the starter guns to face well coordinated well armed veterans, resulting in this. The steep learning curve doesn't help either and the developer have on multiple instances admited that this is a problem.
Dark-Skinned Redhead: Pagan Bloodrose.
Depending on the Artist: Sofia looks drastically different compared to her official art.
The Ditz: Britney Bloodrose. Said to be talentless, clingy and not very bright. Also speaks with a Valley Girl accent. Veronika Lee is another Valley Girl, but marginally smarter and much more badass. She is also more self-aware of it than Britney.
Does Not Like Shoes: Double B, as well as any player character if they so choose.
Do Not Call Me "Paul": "Don't call me Clarissa! It's Britney! BRIT-NEY!"
Drives Like Crazy: Mark Rein's driver in the gameplay mentioned above. The city, as you may see, is designed just so the players can Drive Like Crazy: ramps to jump off from, gaps in highway barriers allowing you to drop to the street below, all sorts of random trash to be run over like in those '70s movies and drainage canals for that Terminator 2 Judgmentday-kind-of chases.
Dude, Where's My Respect?: Subverted. Contacts will regulary send you E-mails when you level them, which indicate them warming up to you. This can go from simply inviting you to parties, to telling you secrets. Gaining their respect is actualy necessary for them to send up to the more important people.
Dummied Out:
Pagan Bloodrose and Simon Tran were removed a few patches ago. They used to deliver 'experimental' missions that G1 wanted to test out, but practically no one used them due to a lack of rewards and unlocks.
Original there were also two additional factions and one extra district planned. The Red Rain and the SPPD in the Midtown District. Reverences to them can still be found in the character bios.
Every Car Is a Pinto: Every car catches fire and then explodes if sufficiently damaged. It can be cleverly used to take out enemies taking cover behind one.
Flavor Text: The pre-designed clothes all have small descriptions about who designed them and in what context. These can range from being just informative to funny to squick-inducing. An example of the latter, one Bloodrose skirt apparently became popular after a woman wearing it gave birth during a TV show, live on camera.
Flashed-Badge Hijack: What happens when you jack a civilian car as an Enforcer. Criminals just unceremoniously toss the civilian out.
Firing One-Handed: An odd example, only the criminals will fire the small-caliber pistols one-handed. Enforcers will always use their other hand to brace the same weapon. Played straight when firing out of cars - both factions will wield their pistols, SMGs, and even assault rifles one-handed.
Funny Background Event: Being an open world MMO game these can be all over the place either on purpose or by accident.
Gas Mask Mooks: With later patches the players can now look like this. Also, TipToe of the criminals wears one.
Germans Love David Hasselhoff: In-universe, apperently the Prentiss Tigers are big in japan, including having their own anime series, with Devil Dog even being offered a spin off. In turn the Tigers preset clothes often have a stereotypical anime element.
Generic Graffiti: Don't be surprised if you see a Pedo Bear, Shinra logo, The Joker or the Awesome Face sprayed on a wall or billboard up high.
G.I.F.T.: This game seems to attract a good deal of whiny teenagers, trolls, idiots and "hardcore" "bro" gamers.
Girlish Pigtails: Two kinds of selectable hairstyle for female characters. Britney Bloodrose has pink ones.
Glasgow Grin: Double B. Britney Bloodrose has one drawn on.
Good Feels Good: One part of the appeal of playing an Enforcer and arresting enemies rather than killing them.
Guide Dang It!: Figuring out which contacts and activities unlocked what was a major pain in the ass since the official guide (known only to the betatesters) was outdated anyway and the new version was still "coming soon". Thankfully the Reloaded version fixes this. You can hover your mouse for a second to see what rank in contact/badge you need. Also, when talking to contacts you have a list of what you can unlock at certain levels.
Car parts however are still not displayed, the only way to know which contacts reward which parts is to look which type of car they unlock.
Hated Hometown: A lot of dialogue involving the civilians will mention their hatred of the city (or at least, the ongoing conflict) and their desire to move away.
Heel–Face Turn: Violet Prentiss, known earlier as Violet Bloodrose. Also, Wilson LeBoyce.
Heroic Mime: Your character (even as an Enforcer in this case), just doesn't talk.
Impossibly Cool Clothes: With the right amount of customization, they can be impossibly cool.
In-Vehicle Invulnerability: As long as you don't stick yourself out of the window to shoot enemies, you're completely protected.
Itasha: With car customization, you can get impressive effects or abominations of various kinds. The latter are more common, although there are some gems in the marketplace. Formula D and FIA GT liveries are unusually common.
Jerk Jock: The Prentiss Tigers take it up a notch. Those guys look like jocks and cheerleaders... and they are The Law.
Law Enforcement, Inc.: The City Secruity Act has essentialy opened the door for this in San Paro. The city itselfs hires anyone willing to help them against the Crims as long as they finance themself. The Praetorian are private military contractor trying to become the new regular police of San Paro and the the Prentiss Tigers are turning law enforcement into a franchise.
Level Grinding:
Level grinding is now the standard in GamersFirst incarnation as clothes, weapons, cars and car mods require leveling up contacts, no longer being rewarded for certain activities. Ranking up 'roles' with weapons meanwhile is now required to unlock better mods for them.
To unlock the basic model of Charge Cisco in the RTW version, you had to achieve Level 2 in "Wheelman" rank, which required bringing no less than 48 cars to chop shops scattered across the districts (to say nothing that some documentation and in-game text referred to it as the "Car Thief" rank). Every chop shop had a cooldown that disabled it for a couple of minutes and to top it off, when you stole a car, the FARTHEST chop shop from your location was highlighted on the map - but if you knew the city well, you could dump the car in any other chop shop closer to you. And that was the Criminal path - Enforcers had to find vehicles that already have been stolen and bring them back to impound lots. Wanted a better Cisco? Well, you had to steal even more cars to unlock the slotted versions...
Some clothes, car parts and decals forced you to spend (lots of) time in vehicle or clothing editor respectively. Of course you could leave the game running and go to lunch, just as a lot of people did. Unlocking other cars, car parts, clothes and decals was even more of a pain in the ass due to having to gain standing with either particular NPCs or factions as a whole. To add insult to injury, no info was available how to unlock particular elements of clothing or decals. Real Time Worlds promised to update The Vault after changes to unlock progression during thebeta, the official unlock database, but didn't do it before nor after release.
Lethal Joke Item: The Hohoho-PGL and Snowball from the Christmas Event 2012 are this. The Hohoho-PGL is a reskinned O-PGL which instead of deadly grenades fires snowballs and has a 1 second timer making shots with it incredible hard to pull off. The snowball meanwhile is a grenade replacement which can only damage upon direct impact. However both weapons can one-hit kill players depending on how far they fly and in most cases at least stun the enemy making a second shot easier. Making both Difficult, but Awesome.
Mama Bear: More like Little Sister Bear: when Double B was a kid, some punks killed her brother. She ran away, came back with a Sawed-Off Shotgun and killed every last one of them.
Mini Dress Of Power: Lilith Bloodrose, Charlotte Bloodrose, Akiko X and Violet Prentiss, and considering the female player characters are Action Girls by the virtue of jacking cars and running people over alone, their minidresses can be considered a power element.
Names to Run Away from Really Fast: Pagan, Lilith, Sabbat...
Not So Different: Mayor Jane Derren and Luke Waskawi. From what we learn from in-game emails covering lore, they both want a 'better' San Paro. The difference between the two is that Derren wants to root out corruption and save the current city, while Waskawi wants to tear everything down and start anew.
Obfuscating Stupidity: Tiptoe. Her entire e-mails are barebone, full of spelling errors and make her look like a violent imbecile. However fully leveling her and recieving her final E-mail reveals that she made those on purpose and wonders if you really fell for it.
Of Corsets Sexy: Charlotte and Lilith Bloodrose. Also, most players wear one on their female crims (if not decked out in military-grade tactical gear).
Ooh, Me Accent's Slipping: Grayson Fell sometimes speaks with an odd Scotirish accent. Also, the supposedly Korean-American Seung and Jeung (especially the former) slip in and out of variously exaggerated generic Far Eastern accent.
Outlaw Couple: Charlotte and Jeung Bloodrose, the founders of Blood Roses.
Permanently Missable Content: All gear earned from the original incarnation of APB. The removal of the gear, however, makes sense since several key aspects had been changed including the removal of certain mods for balancing sake.
Pretty in Mink: Aces wears a fur jacket, Foxtail and Sofia each wear a fur-lined coat, and one of the female designs wears a white fur wrap and red dress with a white fur hem.
Private Military Contractors: The Praetorians.
Rebellious Spirits: The G-Kings. Poor ghetto kids who decided to stick it to the Man. And they're backed by the owner of a garbage disposal company. Well played, Mr Benjamin.
Rage Quit: An interesting variant due to the 'threat system'. Some high-threat players, who want to keep their high threat, will often kick most if not all of their teammates right before a game ends to prevent their threat from dropping too much or to super-inflate their threat. Threat is directly affected by how many people are on your team and the enemy's, as well as the threat levels of everyone, and threat change is only calculated at the end of a match. There are some cases where a high-threat party leader kicks the entirety of his friendly team (which could be as much as nine people in a 10-on-10) just so their emblem could stay a certain colour.
Ramming Always Works: Mostly subverted since vehicles that one faction has to defend are invulnerable to said faction, so the defending players can't just blow up the car to change the car location right before they get overrun. However, it's still possible to push the car around with an SUV or truck, forcing the other team to stop your car before they can break in.
Red Eyes, Take Warning: Britney Bloodrose, although she's an Affably Evil Ditz. Also popular with some players.
Retired Badass: Chiro. Ex-gangbanger who now owns a tattoo parlor and tips players off about new missions.
Byeong Lee of the Prentiss Tigers as well, former Deputy Commissioner of the SPPD who was ousted 20 years ago. His at-the-time suggestions for a more hardline approach to crime got him chewed up by the public* . He was also commander of San Paro's SWAT for 8 years.
Rich Bitch: Bonita Benjamin. The Bloodrose gang also has plenty of those.
Rummage Sale Reject: One of the results of giving players such a wide customization option with their clothes.
Screw This, I'm Outta Here!:
Byron Bloodrose has this planned out with various backup plans should the luck of the Bloodroses end.
Birth's reaction when he found out the people who wanted to sell his newest shirt designs were the same who produced an anime about the Prentiss Tigers who fight Bloodrose vampires and ugly G-King mutants.
Soundtrack Dissonance: When you'll hear songs like "Brindisi" and "Night on Bald Mountain", you will most probably ask yourself why the hell did the devs include those songs. Can be invoked if you upload your own dissonant tracks to play in-game.
Split Personality: Strega Bloodrose. She often says that "Strega is out" while referring to herself by her real name, Jocasta, and calls the player "her own private Ninja Strega shouldn't know about".
Spoiled Brat: The Bloodroses. They hang around in trendy clubs and commit crimes for laughs and just because they can.
Standard Status Effects: Enforcers can use Less-Than-Lethal armaments such as a taser pistol and a bean-bag rifle. These weapons can stun Criminals, leaving them helpless for a few seconds and able to be arrested by an Enforcer, giving them more than triple rewards compared to a kill and taking the Criminal out of the game for a longer period of time. Criminals universally consider these weapons This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Game Breakers, despite the fact that the lethal counterparts to many LTL weapons often do the job faster with fewer rounds spent. This also has more irritation as the criminal is forced to kneel for several seconds helpless, allowing the enforcers plenty of time to abuse the game's numerous emote options.
Stripperiffic: Well, for starters: Pagan and Lilith Bloodrose, expect the players to roll with it as well. There are CrossPlayers out there after all.
Tattooed Crook: Lots of them, both players and NPC Contacts.
The Mafia: Michael Simeone, the Bloodrose boss, is an ex-mafioso turned state witness. He's running a successful club and slowly getting back into "business"...
The Man Behind the Man: Luke Waskawi is this — and the Ultimate Evil. He doesn't appear in the game directly, but is responsible for what the city became. After assassinating the mayor and spending twenty years in the slammer, he escaped and started manipulating both the G-Kings and the Blood Roses for his own gain.
The Smart Guy:
Byron Bloodrose for the Crims, with a bit of The Strategist mixed in. He is the brain behind a lot of the Bloodroses operation and their hacking expert. Also while he likes to tell you about the things he does for them in secret without ever becoming famous for it, he seems to be rather happy that way. The last email he sends you states that he's preparing to leave the Blood Roses for other endeavors, recognizing that the gang's continued success (and existence) is a fluke, and that luck is about to run out.
Ernst "Mule" Templeton is this, considering his extensive military background. He basically manages all the gear that gets shipped to the entire Praetorian force.
Uncanceled: APB has been released into a Free To Play game under the title Reloaded by GamersFirst.
Unusable Enemy Equipment: Not actually weapons or mods, but clothes. Charlotte Bloodrose, Zombie, La Rocha and Sofia, unlike every other contact or NPC in the game, are not made with the character creator but direct copies of their concept art. As a result their unique clothes can not be used by players.
Vanity License Plate: Fully customizable, with 13 different backgrounds and allowing up to eight characters. The plates on Criminal sports car in the concept art actually say "STOL3N".
Vice City: And how! Wander through town and you'll have people diving vans into store fronts, stealing cars and engaging in massive gunfights and demolition derbies in the streets.
Video Game Cruelty Potential:
Some Enforcers have a nasty habit of stunning, arresting, then executing Criminals* . Inversely, some crims will mug random civilians and then shoot them afterwards.
There have been reports of one particular group of enforcers who have choreographed entire dance routines using the game's varied dance emote options, all solely for the purpose of dancing in front of arrested criminals to piss them off. It varies from well choreographed, flashy routines to being grinded upon/tea-bagged by seven grossly obese bounty hunters.
Virtual Paper Doll: ...is you!
"Well Done, Son!" Guy: Arlon Benjamin is this towards his son Harmon.
Witness Protection: Michael Simeone.
Wrench Wench: Chiza. She liked boosting cars for joyrides (and not profit) prior to the formation of the Prentiss Tigers. Ophelia is another, entering in a self-modded car into San Paro's biggest race and winning the whole thing. Her brand, Ophelia Customs, produces the premium-shop cars.
Wretched Hive: San Paro, apparently. Not full-blown as many other examples, but most of the high-level criminal contacts are considered as celebrities by the rest of the public.
A World Half Full:
Main mentality of the Prentiss Tigers.
Surprisingly, the mentality of the G-Kings. They really think they can change something to the better.
Yandere: Charlotte Bloodrose. She's so possessive of Jeung that she set up her perceived rival, Violet Bloodrose, to be killed by another gang. Violet's not at all happy about this now. Neither are her new friends from Prentiss Tigers.
You Gotta Have Blue Hair: Chung-Hee and Double B have blue hair. Most Criminal characters also have outrageous dye-jobs in other colors.
Zettai Ryouiki: Akiko X and Lilith Bloodrose.

Retcon
"Comic book fans will be familiar with the term 'retcon', which in layman's terms means that the writer waves his hand and tells you 'Remember when we said this? We screwed up, forget about that.'"
— Spoony on Highlander III: The Sorcerer
Retroactive Continuity.
Reframing past events to serve a current plot need. The ideal retcon clarifies a question alluded to without adding excessive new questions. In its most basic form, this is any plot point that was not intended from the beginning. The most preferred use is where it contradicts nothing, even though it was changed later on.
While the term comes from comic books, dating to All-Star Squadron #18 in 1983 and shortened to "retcon" by the end of the decade, the technique is much older. Often, it's used to serve a new plot by changing its context; however, it's also done when the creators are caught writing a story that violates continuity and isn't very plausible.
In Marvel Comics, the person who pointed out the problem and at the same time provided a plausible explanation was awarded a Genuine Marvel Comics No-Prize by editor Stan Lee, a tradition that was kept alive by other editors after he became publisher.
See also Ass Pull, which is something that was not properly set up before it is sprung on the audience, and Cliffhanger Copout, in which a perilous situation is retroactively changed to allow the characters to escape. It is related to Deus ex Machina. Some, but not all retcons are Ass Pulls, and a good retcon can actually improve the current narrative. A good way to get away with a retcon is to reveal new implications or motivations for events that have already been established.
Smoother retcons won't be distinguishable as such, and can even make what was initially an Ass Pull later look like everything was Just as Planned. (In other words, No Prize it into plausibility and away from the dizzying realm of the Ass Pull.)
The retcon is considered by many to occur when current events contradict the past continuity of the series and is evidence of a Writer on Board. Perhaps more often, the retcon does not actually violate canon, but rather violates fanon, the set of unstated interpretations usually made by the audience (an interpretation violated this way is said to be Jossed). Most competent writers achieve a retcon by relying on a less-obvious but still perfectly valid interpretation of what was previously seen.
As the number of twists and misdirections in a story becomes higher, it becomes more difficult to tell whether an event actually is a retcon (which implies that the writers changed their minds), or a misdirection (which implies that the writers intended the "retconned" version all along, and had been deliberately misleading the audience before). In some cases, it is impossible to tell, short of reading the author's mind (even then, it might not helped, as it's entirely possible for an author to be on the fence about what they're planning to do).
A retcon may be used as part of an Armed with Canon campaign launched by one author against the work of another author in the same Shared Universe. Over-use of retcons can result in Continuity Snarl. It can also result in your readers and fans approaching the work with a certain degree of skepticism, cynicism or even complete uninterest, especially if you tend to obviously and quickly retcon away that which turns out to be unpopular or drastically challenges or changes the status quo — after all, why get involved in your latest Crisis Crossover Event which promises to Change Everything Forever and that Nothing Will Be The Same Again if there's a good chance it'll all just be retconned away after a short period of time?
This happens very easily with prequels when the writers aren't being very careful. On the other hand, Tropes Are Not Bad. It's entirely possible that an author will retcon his own work to fix a Continuity Snarl or even apply an Author's Saving Throw if things get really hairy. Sometimes, if the pre-retconned works are no longer considered canon by the author, those works are discontinued in canon.
Compare Flip-Flop of God. Tends to come in The Reveal format. May involve Opening a Can of Clones. Can at times also qualify as a Throw It In!.
Specific variants:
Backported Development: When someone's characterization in flashbacks is tweaked to more closely resemble their current self.
Cerebus Retcon: Sometimes a result of Cerebus Syndrome that makes a past event more serious as part of a shift to drama.
Chuck Cunningham Syndrome: A character disappeared from the narrative without explanation.
Revision: A continuity alteration that doesn't directly contradict any previous material.
Rewrite: A retcon that openly overwrites the facts of the previous continuity.
Orwellian Retcon: The prior events that contradict the new continuity get rewritten.
Cosmic Retcon: An in-story event alters reality, which causes a retcon.
Retconjuration: An in-story ability to alter reality, which causes a retcon.
Remember the New Guy?: A new character is introduced, but is retconned to have been part of the story all along.
Related concepts for explaining away retcons can include the Hand Wave or Lampshading. See also an Internal Retcon, for retcons within a fictional universe, or External Retcon, for retcons in real life.
Examples:
Fan Works 
The Child of Love: A while after completing the fic the writer decided that naming Shinji and Asuka’s second child “Axel” was a dumb idea, and he retroactively renamed it “Hiroyuki”.
In Mega Man: Defender of the Human Race:
The Special Edition Episode 1 makes it clear that the company Wily failed to get a job at was Vick-Tek; in the original it was an unnamed company and mentioned in passing.
It also has Lynn Wersching and AL-05 appear earlier as they investigate Wily's home.
Several of them in Superman fanfic Superman of 2499: The Great Confrontation:
Lorile's job changes twice.
The Superman's descendants’ weakness to saltwater, originally stemming from pollution, was retconned to be caused by a hex put on them by Hecate.
In a rare in-universe example, the Lemony Narrator of the essay-fic, Equestria: A History Revealed, crosses out sentences from sources she cites as soon as they disagree with something else she's been saying. It only points out her alterations of history even more.
The rewrite of Sonic X: Dark Chaos not only retconned huge parts of the original, but it also retconned nearly all of the author's prequel story Fall of the Seedrians as well - to the point where the author discontinued the prequel entirely.
The Farscape fic "Unseen Hands" has Crichton discover a holoimager recording of Moya's original escape which reveals that Aeryn's presumed-dead ex-lover Velorek- the Peacekeeper responsible for Pilot being bonded to Moya in the first place- actually helped arrange the escape by providing Rygel with the appropriate access codes. Talking with Pilot, Crichton learns that, just prior to the escape, Moya was scheduled to be taken to a Peacekeeper base where she and Pilot would have been subjected to brutal treatment as part of an attempt to find new ways of controlling Leviathans; Velorek intercepted Rygel's escape plan by providing him and Pilot with the necessary access codes (the codes Rygel would have received would have actually destroyed his cell), Velorek even disabling the control collar himself rather than D'Argo destroying it as appeared in the show. At the conclusion, Pilot and Crichton agree to keep the truth secret, as Pilot feels it would shake up the crew's confidence in their own abilities to learn that they had assistance from a Peacekeeper in their first major cooperative effort (as well as Crichton privately not wanting Aeryn to know that Velorek is still alive).
The My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic Fan Fic "Pattycakes" was first written so that a badly derailed Fluttershy broke Rainbow Dash's will and caused her to regress to a childlike mental state. Given that a) the psychological torture involved consisted of bondage mitts, oatmeal, a bottle and a nappy and b) the whole thing took less than a day, a second part still referred to Dash as "mentally broken" but hung part of the plot on Dash's condition being the result of a mental regression drug Fluttershy had invented.
In the Empath: The Luckiest Smurf series, Nat, Snappy, and Slouchy were never adult Smurfs that became Smurflings to begin with, as they were rewritten to be Smurflings coming straight from Smurfling Island. As a result, a few stories that were adapted from the cartoon show that originally featured the adult Nat Smurf were rewritten to feature Tapper as a nature-friendly Christian who uses the power of Jesus to influence animal beings such as Azrael and a pack of sharks.
Fantasy of Utter Ridiculousness: The Alternate Ending was initially supposed to be a non-canon "What If?" scenario, as the author had intended for the previous chapter to be the story's true conclusion and had no intention of writing more. Eventually it was incorporated into the story's timeline via the Extra Stage, if only as one of a series of bad dreams Patchouli was having.
Do You Believe In Fairies?: The name of Cadance's silkworm was retroactively changed from a Coco Chanel reference to a Vera Wang reference because the writer thought Coco was too problematic.
RWBY: Scars: During volume 4, the writer rewrote a volume 1 scene where Yang hits Weiss. It counted as Early Installment Weirdness but was still too OOC for the story.
In Dragon Ball Z Abridged, at the end of the episode "Bardock: Father of Goku", Cooler lets Goku's escape pod get away even though he's close enough to eliminate it. When asked why, he simply says "because I'm a prick". In the movie "Revenge of Cooler", they replayed this scene, except instead Cooler says he won't destroy it because Frieza only owns this section of the universe because he whined to his dad, and its his problem if this comes back to bite him.
To better match the lore and backstory later revealed in Doom Eternal, the author of Remnant Inferis: DOOM had certain chapters given minor revamps and rewrites regarding Argent D'Nur and the Doom Slayer. For example, Aelia and Doomguy originally had a pleasant first meeting in a field. In the revamped version, it was after he was severely wounded and driven mad from his final battle with the Icon of Sin, in which she tried to tend to his wounds. Another is that the Marauder speaks in the rewritten versions when he was silent originally.
    Films — Animation 
Before 1985, there was no such thing as a set Disney Animated Canon. There were Disney classics of course, but the list of what constituted an "official" entry was constantly changing; they'd add and remove films depending on whether or not they wanted to bill their latest film as "our 15th feature" or "our 20th feature". That changed with the release of The Black Cauldron, which they billed officially as their 25th film by only including films that had at least 75% animation. However, two fully animated films that the list did not include (that had been included in the list's previous incarnations) were The Academy Award Review of Walt Disney Cartoons (1937), which was a compilation of various Silly Symphonies shorts in order to get audiences excited for Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937), and Music Land (1953, and no relation to the 1935 animated short), another compilation film that featured shorts from Make Mine Music! and Melody Time stitched into one film, complete with a new opening and transitions between the shorts. Academy Award Review was re-released into theaters in 1966 and released on Laserdisc in Japan in 1985, but Music Land has been lost to history.
Disney edited the canon again in 2009 by including Dinosaur (2000), which up until that point had not been included, in order to call Tangled (2010) their 50th animated film.
In Europe, since the 2011 Winnie the Pooh film did poorly at the box office, the movie is no more counted as part of the Canon since the 2014 release of the "52 Classics" DVD boxset. Also, The Wild replaces Dinosaur, because UK viewers liked the former a lot.
The Lion King:
Kopa, Simba and Nala's son mentioned in the storybooks The Lion King: Six New Adventures, was ditched and replaced with Kiara in The Lion King II: Simba's Pride without explanation. Averted in this case since the series was published by Grolier Enterprises with the permission of the Disney Marketing department, rather than by Disney itself. The presentation scene however is retconned, and there are several other characters who are borderline retconned (depending on whether you consider the deleted scenes canon).
Simba's and Nala's cub at the end of the first scene has male markings, but is technically never called a male. The sequel redesigns the cub to look female and made her into Kiara. Originally there were going to be twins, which would explain the unknown female cub while keeping the original male cub, but Kiara's twin brother was scrapped to fit continuity and because writing multiple cubs wasn't working well.
An American Tail: The Treasure of Manhattan Island states that Fievel Goes West was All Just a Dream.
The Kung Fu Panda 2 tie-in short Secrets of the Masters completely changes the backstories of masters Ox, Croc, and Thundering Rhino, though this isn't too big of an issue since their original backstories were only explained on the official website, not in the film itself.
The Little Mermaid:
Originally, Aquata was the oldest sister and heir to the throne. This was used in media during the 1990s. In the third movie, Aquata is portrayed as the fourth oldest and Attina is now the oldest.
Adella was portrayed as slightly heavier than her siblings in the both first and second films and in the series she is much heavier than them. She's since been retconned to being Ariel's size.
Cinderella III: A Twist in Time retcons the second movie out of existence, though Anatasia's love interest still appears as a Mythology Gag.
All Dogs Go to Heaven took place during The Great Depression yet the sequel takes place in The '90s. Itchy apparently only recently died between the several decade timeskip.
At the end of Minions which takes place during the mid-1960s, the minions encounter their boss Gru as a child and he takes them in. However, in Despicable Me 3, his twin brother Dru says that he was a child during the 1980s.
Scooby-Doo: Return to Zombie Island , the sequel to Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island has 2 cases of this:
The original movie has the gang as adults and with real world jobs, while the sequel keeps them as teenagers.
Daphne in the original had her own talk show, Coast To Coast With Daphne Blake, while in this movie, she was an intern at a tv station.
Frozen:
Olaf's Frozen Adventure implies Norway exists. Previously, Arendelle was the Fantasy Counterpart Culture of Norway.
Kristoff is Sami according to Word of God. Come Frozen II and the Fantasy Counterpart Culture Northuldra are introduced. Kristoff is never implied to be Northuldra, he dresses differently from the Northuldra, and he was born a decade after the Northuldra became trapped in the mist.
Frozen II contradicts the previous Word of God that King Agnarr and Queen Iduna had been traveling to a wedding when their boat sank by revealing that they had been searching for answers about Elsa's powers to help her.
    Films — Live-Action 
An interesting example occurs in the film version of The Bourne Ultimatum: At the end of The Bourne Supremacy, Jason Bourne calls CIA Deputy Director Pamela Landy, who reveals his real name, birthdate, and birthplace, before they arrange a meeting elsewhere in the city. This exact same scene occurs in the middle of Ultimatum, after we learn how she came across this information, before we learn that 1) the meeting was a diversion so Bourne could break into the CIA's headquarters and steal the documents he needed, and 2) the "birthdate" she gave him was actually a code for the address of the CIA facility in which Bourne was trained.
In The Fast and the Furious series, Leticia "Letty" Ortiz dies in a car crash in Fast & Furious, but is revealed to have lived in Fast & Furious 6.
As stated in the page quote, it isn't just the Highlander series that had a lot of retcons between it in the film, even most of the Highlander films had retcons between them. The sequels and series did away with the idea that the duel between Connor and the Kurgan was the final game-ending duel between the Immortals, with Connor claiming the prize, and instead made the duel one of many, with many Immortals still out there. With the game still ongoing. Duncan was introduced in the series to fight more Immortals. Highlander II: The Quickening retcons the Immortals as beings from the planet Zeist, set in the future, with Ramirez coming Back from the Dead and Brenda dying. These events become Canon Discontinuity. Highlander III: The Sorcerer establishes the game can continue if an Immortal ends up trapped in a cave, and Brenda dies in a car accident. Highlander: Endgame attempts to go with the series continuity by establishing the game is still ongoing due to the existence of more Immortals, so the game doesn't need to be bypassed by hiding in a cave. Brenda didn't die from a car accident, but was run over by the Big Bad Kell, and Duncan's ex-wife Faith is introduced, though he claims in the series to have never been married. Connor has been hibernating for ten years, though the series establishes Connor and Duncan had met during that time. Connor does not live to see the future shown in Highlander II: The Quickening. Highlander: The Source establishes the existence of an even older Immortal than Methos, who was established in the series to be the oldest Immortal.
Happens twice in the Godzilla franchise, specifically Godzilla vs. Megaguirus and Godzilla: Final Wars.
The Indiana Jones series has subtle examples arising from the fact that the second film takes place earlier than the first:
In the now-iconic "shooting the swordsman" scene from Raiders, the common assumption is that Indy acts on the spur of the moment, without ever having anticipated what he would do. But in Temple of Doom, there's a scene that seems like a direct shout-out to the Raiders scene, in which a pair of swordsmen approach Indy, wave their swords around in a very similar manner to the fighter from Raiders, and then Indy reaches for his holster only to realize it's empty. Since the movie is set a year before Raiders, the implication is that this sort of situation is familiar to him and may have even happened before.
Early in Raiders while talking to Marcus, Indy pooh-poohs belief in the supernatural. At the end of the film, of course, Indy sees directly the power of the ark. If Raiders were merely a standalone film we'd have every reason to believe Indy began the story as a skeptic and became a believer by the end. But in Temple of Doom he had another encounter with the supernatural and clearly accepted it, suggesting Indy was lying in his conversation with Marcus from Raiders. One possible explanation is that he thought no one would believe him and didn't want to be viewed as a flake, but that probably wasn't the point of the scene when Raiders was originally written.
In Jurassic Park, the T-Rex didn't eat Dr. Grant because it couldn't see nonmoving objects (in the book, this was in fact a result of splicing dinosaur DNA with frog DNA). In the sequel, this was retconned to rather be that Grant's theories on the T-Rex were wrong, and in fact it ignored him because it wasn't hungry.
The Reveal towards the end of Lethal Weapon 2 that the death of Riggs' wife was no accident but rather a botched attempt by the villains to kill Riggs himself back when he with Narcotics working at Long Beach.
Madeline, apropos of nothing and in complete contradiction of the books the movie is ostensibly adapting, depicts Madeline as an orphan. Episodes of the Animated Adaptation made after the movie make this change as well.
Discussed Trope in Misery, where Annie refuses to accept the first draft of Paul's new Misery novel because it contradicts known facts — and as his "#1 fan" she knows the books better than he does.
The Omen (1976) is clearly set around its release in 1976, as evidenced by the fashions and vehicles. The third film in the series, Omen III: The Final Conflict, explicitly took place in 1982 and 26 years after the original, retroactively pushing the first movie's events back to 1956 (and those of the first sequel, Damien: Omen II, to 1963).
In the 1995 miniseries adaptation of Pride and Prejudice, Wickham says "There's one lady I shall be very loath to part from," while looking meaningfully at Lizzie, shortly before he leaves for Brighton. After he elopes, we see this line again in a flashback, followed by a meaningful look at Lydia, which definitely was not there the first time.
In the American remake of The Ring, Samara was a biological child of the Morgans (at least Anna),note  yet they claimed she was adopted, possibly to hide her supernatural origin. In The Ring Two, she got a new set of parents, making the Morgans her adoptive ones, and in Rings, her biological father was replaced again.
Zigzagged in the Rocky movies on at least two occasions.
At the end of Rocky, Apollo Creed tells Rocky that he has no desire for a rematch. Cut to the beginning of Rocky II (which takes place that same night), and Apollo is so desperate for a rematch that he tries to get Rocky to fight him in the middle of the ER they were taken to for treatment. Unlike some examples, Rocky lampshades the fact that Apollo apparently changed his mind quickly.
After the events of Rocky IV, Word of God indicated that Drago was disgraced, and he ultimately committed suicide, but it was never confirmed during the events of the subsequent movies. In Creed II, it is revealed that Drago is very much alive, and he has been training his son to become a fighter, but it was also revealed that he was disgraced due to losing against Rocky.
Snow White and the Huntsman has Finn describe Sara's death to Eric, strongly implying that he killed her personally. The Huntsman: Winter's War not only retcons the manner of Sara's death, but it instead reveals that Eric only believed her to be dead. Finn is also completely absent in the prologue of the second movie, which retcons Ravenna into having a younger sister Freya who wasn't mentioned in the first film.
The Star Wars prequels introduced a number of problematic contradictions:
In A New Hope, Obi-Wan mentions that Anakin wanted Luke to have his lightsaber when he was old enough. However, unless Obi-Wan heard Anakin screaming something very different than what was said onscreen as he was being roasted alive on the shores of Mustafar, this is altered quite drastically in Revenge of the Sith. Though some fans shrug it off with it being From a Certain Point of View (it certainly would not be the only lie Obi-Wan tells Luke in this scene) and/or a bit of wishful thinking ("If he'd known you existed, and if we hadn't been enemies at the end..."). It could otherwise be chalked up to Early Installment Weirdness, which is all over the place in A New Hope.
In Return of the Jedi Luke asks Leia if she remembers her real mother and Leia says that she died when she was very young, but she has some memories: "She was very beautiful. Kind, but sad." Revenge of the Sith reveals that Leia's mother died within minutes of giving birth to her.
In turn, Star Wars Legends (the old EU) also features an innumerable amount of Retcons. However, they are generally very subtle, used to explain minor discrepancies. Though a few of them are still significant enough to affect ongoing storyline. On the other hand, many are almost something of a Butterfly Effect - a fairly small and seemingly insignificant thing that ends up causing lots of Fridge Logic in other works (or even the same one). In many cases, this is more due to a build-up of lots of these little inconsistencies that magnify each other when combined. Of note is the retcon that Palpatine and Thrawn knew the Vong were coming and told no-one.
The countless species used to have this happen to them on a fairly regular basis. Retcons would include everything from a character formerly established to be one species being retconned into another one or a subspecies, to the appearance of a race changing from one work to another. Like◊ the◊ Cathar◊.
Bothans, for various reasons, have had their appearance change somewhat frequently. They originally looked like humans with fur, then like bipedal orangutans, but now look something like a cross between a lion and a kangaroo, with humanoid build. And half-Bothans, for some reason, have hooves.
R2-D2 flying. Apparently, they decided that was too cool an ability and removed it sometime between III and IV. Though it's easy to assume that R2 possessed the ability to fly in the Original Trilogy, but never did because he didn't have to.
A minor one, but still worth pointing out since some side material still stick with the original story. In the novelization of Return of the Jedi, the reason for Vader's reliance on his trademark life support armor was that he fell into a pit of lava following a duel with Obi-Wan Kenobi. In Revenge of the Sith, Vader and Obi-Wan duel on the volcanic planet Mustafar with Obi-Wan defeating Vader on a bank next to a lava river. Vader never actually touches the lava, but he's close enough that the hot fumes set his clothes on fire and he burns to a crisp. Probably justified, since it's a bit more likely that he'd survive this way.
The changes introduced in the Special Editions slightly alter the story of the original films, adding Han's conversation with Jabba, the presence of extra droids, Dewbacks, and Stormtroopers, the Max Rebo Band performing Jedi Rocks at Jabba's palace, and a number of visual updates that approach Orwellian Retcon.
At Celebration 2017, Dave Filoni confirmed that a popular fan theory that Captain Rex of The Clone Wars and Rebels was a member of the Rebel strike team in Return of the Jedi would be canonized, thus retconning that particular soldier's previous name and identity away.
The character Admiral Wullf Yularen came to prominence through the Expanded Universe/Legends and then The Clone Wars and Rebels animated series, but technically debuted in A New Hope—an unnamed Imperial officer on the Death Star was eventually assigned the name "Wullf Yularen" and his character was fleshed-out from there.
Solo expands on some details on Han Solo's past, such as how Han received his last name, how he got the dice in the Millenium Falcon and what it means to him, the circumstances surrounding the Kessel run, how Han gets the Millenium Falcon, how a droid is uploaded into the Millenium Falcon's computer, and that the gap in the front of the Millenium Falcon used to hold an escape pod.
The Rise of Skywalker implies Leia already knew Rey was the descendant of Palpatine and was training her due to being strong with the force. Poe has an added backstory as a Spice Runner. The Last Jedi Visual Dictionary claims Luke's X-Wing on Ahch-To is non-functional, but now it is functional. The Jedi texts are not just concerned with Jedi teachings, but contain information on the Wayfinder and how to get to Exegol in the Unknown Regions. Rey is Palpatine's granddaughter rather than being just the descendant of worthless junk traders. The novelization goes further; Palpatine was a clone, and Rey's father was a defective clone of Palpatine, and the kiss Rey and Kylo shared was strictly platonic.
Few remember when Kyle Reece told Sarah Connor that "There is no fate but what we make for ourselves?", in the first The Terminator movie. Apparently, that was the most important thing in the message he was supposed to deliver to her from John Connor in the future, so the second film makes sure to make the viewer remember he said it, as this idea is a big part of the plot of Terminator 2: Judgment Day.
X-Men Film Series:
X-Men: First Class set in 1962 shows a brief clip of Storm as a little girl with her hair already white. X-Men: Apocalypse is set twenty-one years later and shows her with black hair that only turns white when Apocalypse empowers her. Unless of course she had been dyeing it black and Apocalypse just made her natural hair come through.
Also at the end of First Class, Charles wipes Moira's memories - and her dialogue implies that she remembers everything up until Shaw attacked the CIA. Apocalypse retcons this into never remembering Charles at all.
With Peter Dinklage being cast as Bolivar Trask in X-Men: Days of Future Past, the character played by Bill Duke in X-Men: The Last Stand is retconned into being 'Secretary Trask'.
Flint Marko's entire role in Spider-Man 3. In fact, when Captain Stacey addresses Peter Parker and Aunt May in the police station, he could virtually be the chief spokesperson of retcons in their purest form: "Initially, we thought this man, Dennis Carradine (the thief from the first film) was your husband's killer... we were wrong. As it turns out, Mr. Carradine was only an accomplice - the actual killer is still at large." Stacey slides Marko's mug shot across the table to Aunt May. "This is the man who killed your husband." To take the retcon even further, Peter's mind reels in sorrow via flashback where Marko shoots Uncle Ben in cold blood, complete with a hateful glare... however, the end makes it clear this is only what Peter thinks happened, as Marko delivers a heavy confession in a Once More, with Clarity! flashback that the money Carradine robbed was never meant for him in the first place, but rather emergency money to help Penny, Flint's dying daughter. Carradine yanks Marko's arm as he runs back, causing him to fire an accidental shot at Uncle Ben he did not deliberately intend.
DC Extended Universe:
At the end of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, Wonder Woman states that she abandoned the world of men one hundred years ago, with the clear implication that she gave up on humanity after her experiences in the First World War. However, when we actually see those events in her own film she comes close to the Despair Event Horizon after Steve Trevor's death, but doesn't cross it, rejects Ares' Humans Are Bastards worldview, and is not shown abandoning humanity at the end. Justice League (2017) reinforces this further as, while it doesn't get specific, it does state that Wonder Woman came to humanity's defense many times in between 1918 and the events of Dawn of Justice.
For a "softer" retcon, we have Superman's personality and relationship to the world. Man of Steel and Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice gave him an Adaptational Angst Upgrade and made Beware the Superman a major plot point, while Justice League basically drops these tropes and tries to convince the audience that no, he was always this friendly and everybody loved him, really.
Aquaman drastically altered many aspects of Arthur Curry's personality and backstory established in previous films. Most notably, Arthur went from blaming his mother Queen Atlanna for her parental abandonment in Justice League to blaming Atlantis for arresting and apparently executing her for marrying his human father Thomas.
Marvel Cinematic Universe:
Early installments in the series went the Clarke's Third Law route with any magic encountered. This was especially noticeable in the early Thor installments that firmly established the Asgardians as Sufficiently Advanced Aliens. However, Guardians of the Galaxy indulged in much softer sci-fi and even some magic with the Infinity Stones. Avengers: Age of Ultron flirts with a little bit Clarke's Third Law again, but Doctor Strange firmly and explicitly establishes magic to the setting (and outright refutes Clark's Third Law). Thor: Ragnarok retconned previous elements from the franchise to be explicitly magical and started calling the Asgardians gods.
Avengers: Infinity War contradicts some of what we knew before about Thanos and his forces. For example, the Sanctuary II (Thanos's ship) was only introduced during The Stinger of Thor: Ragnarok. It is presented as if it was always Thanos's home base with his throne in a room aboard it decorated with slabs of rock, ignoring Sanctuary where his throne was just floating out in the middle of space on some asteroids. Additionally, there are new members of the Black Order not seen or mentioned before but treated as integral to Thanos's forces. This becomes even more evident in Avengers: Endgame when both of these show up in 2014, prior to Guardians of the Galaxy.
In the Critters franchise the Crites were a species of genderless aliens who reproduced asexually. Critters Attack! however, introduces female Crites known as queens; they are white with black stripes and have visible eyelashes.
    Music 
Remember when Rolling Stone declared Pink Floyd's album Wish You Were Here to be "actually nothing more than the skillful manipulation of elements so simple — the basic three chords everyone else uses — that any collection of bar hacks could grind out a note-for-note reproduction without difficulty"? Well, neither do they, considering they now declare it one of the greatest albums of all time.
    Myths & Religion 
Before the establishment of canon texts, most religions were retconned continuously throughout their existence. Ancient Egypt had three creator gods: Amun, Ra (later combined as Amun-Ra) and Ptah. Dionysus started out as a god of death, resurrection and primal chaos, but after disappearing from the pantheon for a while, came back as the happy drunkard we know today.
The practice of religious syncretism — the merging of two or more religious traditions — generally results in this, with older myths, texts and stories getting their context changed to make them compatible.
In the Catholic Church, a couple whose marriage is broken beyond repair may request an annulment. (In some places, this also counts as a civil divorce, but in most jurisdictions today, a church annulment and a civil divorce or civil annulment are two completely separate things.) This isn't so much a divorce, however, as a retcon. Essentially, it states that the marriage failed to meet at least one of the requirements for that marriage to be valid. (Namely, free and informed consent, full and permanent commitment to the marriage, and openness to children note ) Because the marriage was not (in the eyes of the church) valid, an annulment declares that the marriage never actually took place. This step is necessary for a Catholic who is divorced and wishes to remarry in the church; without this step, they are still considered married (in the eyes of the Church) to their first spouse, and they will be denied the right to marry in the church. (They can, however, still have a civil wedding ceremony, or a nondenominational religious ceremony, or marry in another faith. However, unless and until they get their first marriage annuled, they cannot receive Communion.)
    Pinballs 
Mad Daedalus retcons the Lost Technology of its predecessor, Loony Labyrinth, as the inventions of the ancient Greek Daedalus working with the Imported Alien Phlebotinum he found from a crashed spaceship.
    Pro Wrestling 
Due to its inherent nature, professional wrestling is full of retcons. This is especially true for angles (storylines) that flop or otherwise fail to resonate with the audience. In the years before the word gained negative political connotations, the terms "abort" and "abortion" were used in carny language to reference a suddenly-ended failed angle.
The NWA retconned The Fabulous Moolah's first women's title run, so the WWF retconned all of Fabulous Moolah's title losses, for 26 years anyway.
The NWA and Ring Warriors retconned Kacee Carlisle's forced defense of the NWA women's championship belt into a her getting an inexplicable shot at La Rosa Negra's Battling Bombshells belt.
TNA did an extended storyline where Sting turned heel after Hulk Hogan and Eric Bischoff came on board. Hogan was clearly acting as a face, while it was hinted Bischoff might be working behind his back. However, Sting was a heel and was attacking faces. He made some vague comments about people not understanding, but he was a heel. Lo and behold, Hogan & Bischoff cheat TNA president Dixie Carter out of controlling interest in the company. As a result, Hogan and Sting's heel/face alignments are retroactively reversed.
Edge and Christian were initially portrayed as brothers but were later referred to as childhood friends (which they were in Real Life—they were born within a few months of one another, and raised in the same Ontario town).
Kane's (kayfabe) marriage to Lita was retconned due to the whole Matt Hardy/Lita/Edge triangle storyline/debacle. However, it was later reversed because Matt's been released for several years and blackballed from the company. Also, the backstory of Kane being a severe burn victim was retconned after his unmasking in 2003. After a horribly failed attempt at making Glenn Jacobs' face look burnt, they did away with it and acknowledged that Kane was not actually scarred, but was instead suffering from something akin to Body Dysmorphic Disorder, believing himself to be disfigured even though he wasn't.
When Kelly Kelly lost her Divas' Championship to Beth Phoenix in 2011, she was defeated by Beth in a match on Smackdown that was announced as a non-title match (and no title graphics were shown). However when the results went up on WWE.com, it was suddenly retconned into being Kelly's title rematch - and Eve Torres was pushed instead.
Kamala made his WWF debut in 1984 managed by "Classy" Freddie Blassie, and they appeared together on "Piper's Pit" on the August 25th (taped July 30) episode of WWF Championship Wrestling. During his second run, in 1986, he, the Wizard (King Curtis Iaukea) and Kim Chee (Steve "The Brooklyn Brawler" Lombardi) appeared on Piper's Pit on the November 22 (taped October 28) WWF Superstars, and Piper had to act like he had never seen him before. But then, every time Kamala returned it seemed like his previous runs with the company were forgotten.
    Roleplay 
Not altogether uncommon in Survival of the Fittest.
From the V3 Pregame to the start of the game itself, Sean O'Cann went from a narcissistic, arrogant Jerk Jock with hints of homosexuality to a friendly, compassionate, fairly sensitive guy. This change seems to rely on the assumption that a couple of pregame topics (which featured Sean acting like a Jerkass) never happened.
Bobby Jacks' full name. It transpires on the 7th day of the game that his name is actually Robert, with Bobby being a nickname. No reference of this being the case had been made before this point, although some people assumed that his name was Robert prior to that, but it's never mentioned, and his profile doesn't even note it.
Finally, the setting itself was retconned, changed from being set in the Battle Royale universe to its own original continuity and setting.
While not happening all the time, it is not uncommon for certain characters to be retconned in Marvels RPG. This will mainly happen if a new member wish to use a scrapped character that haven't done much before (s)he was scrapped.
    Tabletop Games 
In both Warhammer and Warhammer 40,000, whenever fluff from one army's codex contradicts that of another, it's stated to be the work of propaganda. This is because until later on an army can probably expect to see an update to their book every 2-3 years, and several had not seen an update for up to a decade (Dark Eldar was most infamous for this prior to their update), so there are expected to be massive gaps in the lore that don't match up. This also allows the author of each book to play up the badassery of the unit's Bestiary entry without much complain about Gameplay and Story Segregation, as the Bestiary entry is supposed to play up their badassery even if it's not true.
Warhammer 40,000 has undergone quite a few of these through its four editions, including entire races being retconned out. Anyone younger than 20 remember the Squats? Didn't think so. The official policy on the Squats now appears to be that the entire race was murderlised by one of the Tyranid Hive Fleets. The Tyranids are God's gift to retconners. "Hey, what happened to those guys?" "Eaten by Tyranids." And then Ret Conception kicked in with the game's 6th edition, which brought the Squats back as a race of abhumans tolerated by the Imperium.
The Fimirs of Warhammer.
Originally created to be the "iconic monsters" of the Warhammer world, they are now remembered only by people who played Hero Quest early in the nineties. Their reproductive cycle revolved around capturing human slaves for brides, which probably made for some thorny conversations with the parents of younger gamers. They made a return in 2012 as part of Forge World's Monstrous Arcanum release though, albeit with some more family-friendly lore.
Retconning happens at a minor level when most new editions of the army books are released, introducing new units and troop types into armies whose backgrounds have never included them before. Often these newcomers will be woven into the history of the faction in question to make it seem like they've been there all along. Or, as a direct rewrite, to fix continuity errors. For example, in his first appearance in the Warriors of Chaos book, the Dragon Ogre Shaggoth Kholek Suneater was supposed to have been imprisoned in a glacier 700 years before the present by Teclis, the greatest wizard of the modern era. Since Teclis was actually born several hundred years after this date, the new version has changed it to "the greatest High Elf Mages of the day".
Warhammer: The End Times earned a lot of ill will from the fanbase by doing this repeatedly, often in ways that didn't mesh harmoniously with the setting as previously established. For example, in lore written prior to the End Times, Malekith was found unworthy to be Phoenix King by the Flame of Asuryan, which burned him horribly. Some lore, including the Sundering novels, even went into detail on why he would be found unworthy - for example, the part where he conspired to undermine the former Phoenix King for years, then murdered him, then started a fight at the election to determine the new Phoenix King because the other lords weren't falling in line fast enough. Then, in the End Times, it suddenly turned out that he was actually Asuryan's choice all along, and the bit where he was only near the Flame to begin with because he murdered the last guy to have the job he wanted was quietly ignored.
Before The End Times there was Storm of Chaos, which ran on a very similar premise - The armies of Chaos led by Archaon the Everchosen were overwhelming the world and every faction had to respond, but this time the outcome of the event was to be determined by battles fought by the players and submitted to Games Workshop. This did not go as planned - Owing to a number of circumstances players of Chaos armies proceeded to get massacred by nearly every other faction. GW so badly wanted Chaos to win that they later changed the rules, letting the players vote on whether Chaos should win or the faction that had just been defeated in the plot, the orcs, should win. The players overwhelmingly chose the orcs. GW was left in the uncomfortable position of either having Archaon fail spectacularly or pushing on with the plot by completely ignoring the results of the submitted battles. They opted instead for a strange middle ground where they tried to acknowledge the results without letting them dictate the flow of the story. The story that resulted was equal parts Ass Pull, Character Derailment, and Railroading and all of it was eventually exiled from canon by the End Times, which was a much better look at what Storm of Chaos would have been if the players hadn't been given a say.
In Exalted, the Sidereal Exalted (who are basically Fate Ninjas) have a panic button called Avoidance Kata. Its effect? Retcon the whole world so that they made a different choice several minutes ago and are anywhere but here.
The introduction of the Liminal Exalted is this out of universe. Word of God says they've been there for a long time, we just didn't notice them.
Holden Shearer: They're very rare, they live in the cracks of the setting and perform their feats in dark times people strive to forget. But they're not new, as the GSPs are new; thus, 'they were always there.'
Several of the other new Exalted introduced in 3e also get retconned into Creation's history along with the Liminals, such as the Exigents and the Spoken.
3e also significantly rewrites the map of Creation, expanding its overall area, adding many new places, and shrinking some established places that covered entirely too much space.
The Green Sun Princes get a significant rewrite in 3e. Their 2e incarnation featured, among other things, each GSP using the actual Charms of two of their Yozi patrons, which required that they gained the requisite level of Essence before purchasing new Charms, meaning that covering the necessary core Exalted competencies for all GSPs, even when just limited to the Reclamation Yozis, needed a very large Charmset; the ability to 'hack' the Charms to become Primordials in their own right; Castes that took their names from the Houses of Demon: The Fallen; and notorious elements like the phylactery-womb and the initiatory gangbang by Third Circle Demons. In 3e, their Charms are instead influenced by their patrons, like the other Exalted, and require both a degree of skill in an Ability and a certain level of Essence to learn, resulting in a Charmset all GSPs have access to which can cover the core competencies in a much smaller space, and has Charms emulating all of the known Yozis; they can't become Primordials, but can emulate their nature (multiple independent souls, generating a world from their central soul, etc.); their Castes mainly take their names from the horizontal coordinate system (Azimuth, Nadir, etc.); and the phylactery-womb and gangbang have been most definitively dropped.
The Lunars' exact role in the setting has been rewritten every edition, from champions of 'barbarian' cultures in 1e to covert social engineers in 2e to the primary resistance against the Realm in 3e.
Unknown Armies gives us Entropomancers (chaos mages who get power from taking risks), who are based around re-writing history. Cliomancers, despite being history buffs, can only affect people's PERCEPTION of history, as well as their memories. Of course, this still counts as retcon.
The "Luck" advantage in GURPS can have the enhancement "Wishing" added to it which allows the person using it to retcon a recent mistake into whatever result they like. The writers have also retconned the weights of melee weapons as including the sheath in order to bring them down to reasonable levels.
Wizards of the Coast wielded a +5 Rethammer in the Fourth Edition Forgotten Realms. Virtually the entire elven pantheon was retconned into one or more existing (usually human-ish) gods, along with the vast majority of the other minor gods. The previous planet of Abeir-Toril was changed to two separate worlds. Also gone is the Blood War, a massive near-eternal war between the devils of the Nine Hells and the demons for the Abyss for ultimate badassery.
They do give a reason why there is no Blood War. Asmodeus, the lord of the Devils, became a god and took a third option, by kicking the Abyss out of the way so they don't have to fight it.
A relatively minor, but still noticeable one was made to the war between the Gods and the Primordials. Originally, the Gods defeated the Primordials and banished them to the Elemental Chaos. It was later "revealed" that a third party, the Primal Spirits, intervened and ordered a truce.
Mystra dies. Again. This is the fourth time it happens.
The 3rd Edition Realms also featured some sizable retcons, for instance making the Simbul a sorcerer (a new class introduced in that edition). Unlike many other examples of the Realms being altered by new editions, an article in Dragon magazine explained that this wasn't an in-universe change: "She's always been a sorcerer. You just weren't looking closely enough before".
5th Edition acknowledges that most of the changes in 4th edition happened, but reset most of them so that the 5th Edition Realms are pretty much the same as they've always been.
In the early days of the storyline collectible card game Legend of the Five Rings, a number of card typos brought about story retcons. The most consequential of these was an oni card misprinted with the name of the hero Hida Yakamo. This led to a story point about Yakamo selling the oni his name, heavily influencing his character development and in the end being explained as the general model for oni-human interaction in Rokugan.
An actual rule of the universe in Nobilis: if you cause a car to fall apart, reality will insert a history of mechanical failures to explain that.
BattleTech usually avoids direct retcons, as almost every publication exists as an actual document within the universe, retcons can be explained as being from atn Unreliable Narrator or meddling from the secretive organization that runs the Subspace Ansible network. However, there a few straight-up retcons:
A key point of the setting was that all capacity to build BattleMechs was irrevocably destroyed in a 300 year long war, and that the noble houses were fighting over remaining spare part depots. This was to play up a Mad Max / Scavenger World setting. However, they soon realized that no factories = no new designs to be introduced in followup supplements. Therefore, FASA later said that there were still factories producing new 'Mechs, but that they were degraded and no longer working at full capacity, and that the bleeding-edge tech of the Star League was Lost Technology.
When the game first came out in 1984, the majority of the Humongous Mecha used artwork licensed from Japanese anime, mostly Macross. Flash forward to 1994, and the American distributor of Macross sues the bejesus out of FASA. The mechs listed in the suit (most notably, the de-facto Series Mascot Warhammer and Marauder) could no longer be depicted in artwork, and republications of older sourcebooks had to edit them out. However, the mechs still existed In-Universe, unchanged, and newer lawyer-friendly art with altered designs were explicitly different variants. The mechs original designs were retconned in 2015; the original designs are now non-canonical.
In the BattleTech Expanded Universe, the first novels depicting the high-tech Clan Invasion were written before the new sourcebooks were released (packed full of recovered/rediscovered Inner Sphere Lost Technology), leading to the protagonists seemingly flabbergasted by Clan technology that the Inner Sphere was already producing.
Originally Queen Frostine from Candy Land was the mother of Princess Lolly. Queen Frostine is now "Princess Frostine", sister of Princess Lolly.
Magic: The Gathering:
MTG has what's known as "The Revision". In the early days, the novels and comics were done by different companies than the card game itself, but when Wizards of the Coast became a bigger company they wanted to publish their own books. Reading the 10 books and the pile of comics so far was apparently too much effort for them though, so they issued a statement that everything that had come before was still valid, unless new stories contradicted them, thus creating what fans call "prerevisionist" and "revisionist" continuity. Several books were actually published that replaced older comics.
At the end of the Mirrodin novels, Glissa activates the Soul Traps and sends all of the inhabitants of the plane back to their original homes, leaving only her, Slobad and Geth's head on Mirrodin to act as wardens for the Mirari. When the plane was revisited years later in the Scars of Mirrodin block, this was retconned so that only those who weren't born on Mirrodin were returned to their original planes, and that the "native" Mirrans had been left behind.
Wizards also confirmed that the Guilds of Ravnica had pretty much dissolved, shortly before Return to Ravnica was announced and it turned out that they were still going strong.
    Theatre 
In a strange retcon of the events of The Trojan War, some poets contend that Helen never actually went to Troy and that Paris instead was tricked into abducting an illusion of her (don't ask). In another retcon, Helen is carried off by Paris but ends up being stranded in Egypt. Euripides reconciles these two variations in his play Helen. He also rewrote Trojan War history with his Iphigenia plays, crafting a scenario in which she survives the efforts to sacrifice her to the gods and has various misadventures while her father is off to war.
    Toys 
The original G.I. Joe figure was unnamed until both the G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero mail-in toy and the comic established General Joe Colton as the original G.I. Joe.
The Transformers franchise has a few:
The original cartoon presented the Transformers origin as being created by a squid-robotic race called the Quintessons as slave labor. Most later incarnations, including G1 versions, have ignored that origin story in favor of the Primus-God version. Although it could be argued one does not preclude the other...
The original cartoon had Unicron originally constructed by a being called Primacron. Every version since has used the origin that Unicron and Primus were warring brothers and Unicron being the Transformers equivalent of the Devil.
Hasbro had earlier stated that the Transformers Aligned Universe isn't part of the larger Transformers multiverse. Between Transformers: Rise of the Dark Spark (which involves the titular artifact going from the Aligned universe to the universe of the movies and a Generation One universe), the Ask Vector Prime column (which confirmed the events of Dark Spark revealed the existence of the Aligned universe to the larger Multiverse), and The Complete AllSpark Almanac (which also mentioned the Aligned universe), Regeneration One (which has a subplot of Hot Rod seeing all his counterparts, including his Aligned incarnation from the DS version of War for Cybertron), and Andromeda - Axiom Nexus News Reporter, this has since been changed.

This also put an end to the idea of the original Thirteen being "multiversal singularities" as the Aligned!Thirteen includes very different members including Alpha Trion and Optimus Prime, and "Ask Vector Prime" outright had Vector Prime (who, according to "multiversal singularity" rule, meant that every bot with the name "Vector Prime" would, for all intents and purposes, be the same bot from Transformers Cybertron) stating that his Aligned counterpart is a distinctly separate entity. Hasbro ultimately pulled a Cosmic Retcon and put the multiversal singularities concept down for all the Thirteen, as well as Unicron and Primus themselves, making the one in each universe their own entities.
Effectively, by changing the Beast Wars toyline to be in-line the cartoon, the events don't take place on present day Earth, and Optimus Primal and Beast!Megatron aren't the same characters as their G1 namesakes but instead, are Legacy Characters.
Happens a lot in Sylvanian Families, especially when families get discontinued which leads to their disappearance from the village and an existing family taking over their job (often dumping their old job point blank), or a new family just appears out of nowhere and takes over, and everyone acts like they've known each other forever.
Also, sometimes when new characters are introduced, the standing of previous characters may get Retconned, as in the case of Rebecca Periwinkle, who in 2018 was suddenly revealed to have an older sister named Catherine. It was mentioned several times previously in various extended materials that Rebecca is the oldest of the Periwinkle siblings.
    Visual Novels 
Fate/stay night and its associated franchise have had a number of retcons, thanks in part due to the series' nebulous and infamously complicated magical system. Retcons can easily be explained away by saying the character who delivered exposition earlier just wasn't knowledgeable enough about how magic really works.
In the original visual novel, it was claimed that the only Assassin-class Servants that could be summoned were members of the Hashashin, and that Sasaki Kojiro was a unique exception due to Caster mucking with the Grail War's spells. Later entries in the series have completely ignored this rule, with Assassins being as diverse as any other class.
Staying with Sasaki Kojiro for a moment, it was claimed that he was a "fake Servant" because he never truly existed, and was only the incarnation of a legend. Later stories have introduced huge swathes of Servants who "never existed" and are only legends embodied, with no implication that they are "lesser" than other Servants.
Originally it was claimed that Magic Crests could only be transferred between family members, due to compatible genetics. This rule has been relaxed later on, with the setting now saying that that is normally true, but two people unrelated by blood may still be "compatible" and able to transfer a Crest between them, with several cases of this happening throughout the franchise.
    Web Animation 
Lampshaded in Unforgotten Realms where in one episode, Garry got his original body back (in a way that doesn't make sense), and jumps off a cliff. Two episodes later, Roamin talks about how the show does not make sense, and Garry reappears in his new body.
In the Homestar Runner toon "email thunder", it turns out that Homestar has had his own email-answering program for a while now. Much of the time when Homestar appeared incompetent or insane was merely part of his show. Not only that, but his show is actually more popular than Strong Bad's. This is expanded upon in "Hremail 7", where it's suggested that Strong Bad first got the idea for his show from Homestar and then forgot about it. Also, he got his first computer from Homestar's trash, and his first email was actually sent by a friend of The Cheat's.
In "kind of cool", Strong Sad says that Senor Cardgage lived near the Brothers Strong when they were little. Later toons suggest that Cardgage still does live near the Strongs.
Benthelooney is a prominent abuser of this since his rants were Un-Canceled. From the original dubs to the first half of the "Revival Era", he was fairly consistent for the most part with his opinions and stuck with them. But in the middle of 2012 to this day, he started retconning his original opinions on subjects that were mostly well-established later on (Pixar, and even Adventure Time and Regular Show).
    Webcomics 
Discussed in an "Ammika Explains" segment of APT Comic.
In The B-Movie Comic, Professor Dr. was never actually a hunchback.
Bob and George:
Why make it a plan!
Retconning earlier plot holes (usually via time travel) is one of this comic's defining aspects.
Several characters in Ctrl+Alt+Del were retconned, even having their bios deleted on the site. Though at first it looks like they were just Put on a Bus or Brother Chucked, if you mention any of these characters on the forum, the creator, Tim Buckley, will ban you for life.
Lampshaded in this Darths & Droids.
Daughter of the Lilies got a minor one regarding the similiarites of the names Rose and Rosemary, as well as changing the design of cave elves to be less drow-esque and include more monstrous features.
Drowtales went through this once. Now the first episode has been redone the second time. While the new pages are much better quality-wise, and some of the plot make a lot more sense, many elements were removed, characters have been changed, and episodes were cut down to mere sketches of their former selves. Not to mention the mysteries the reader was left in the dark about for most of the original stories were also revealed retroactively. The series also became Lighter and Softer in some ways while amplifying some of the darker themes at the same time.
El Goonish Shive, has had a lot of retcons and Dan has admitted as much:
Just look at EGS. You can't throw a rock without hitting a retcon, and several of them do exist as a result of past mistakes.
Parodied in an oddly confusing fashion by Evil, Inc.. See the strip here.
Erfworld needed to retcon a special ability given to one of the characters in its series. Funnily enough, it actually managed to successfully lampshade this through the ironically-recursive introduction of a school of magic known as retconjuration. (In an even more delicious twist of irony, this school retroactively replaced a school called Deletionism, which was itself deleted.)
At least one early page of Far Out There has been specifically retconned. The first appearance of Layla's mother Pattie presented her in a fairly villainous role, but that never sat well with the author. Eventually, he wrote a lengthy voting incentive◊ that not only re-imagined the character to be more sympathetic, but also drastically changes the details of Pattie and Layla's falling out.
Girly does this rather jarringly during the final arc. Turns out that Otra is actually the Eldritch Abomination-y Sidekick Queen, and that her entire life was just a lie fabricated to awaken her latent power. Entire strips were replaced to support this. Winter and the readers were devastated. PSYCH! Turns out that the Business Sidekick was lying and Otra was simply possessed! And the changed strips? They just made it impossible to disprove the Business Sidekick. Like Josh would actually do THAT to his characters...
R.H.Jr's Goblin Hollow had the hell retconned out of it. It was once known as 'Under the Lemon Tree' and the Goblins were originally figments of Ben's imagination made real. It received a retcon changing the setting, and quite a few facts from the original, including how the goblins came to be.
Gunnerkrigg Court contains a minor retcon. In the first chapter, Antimony reconstructs a robot from spare parts in order to carry a shadow across a bridge (it was the only logical answer). To many, this implied that she was at least somewhat technologically proficient, as she is able to look at a piece of what we assume to be complex machinery and repair it almost completely. However, as the comic continues, we learn that her best friend Kat is actually the scientist and Antimony is perplexed by machinery if anything. So, how did she rebuild a complicated gizmo like Robot? Well, we learn that all she really did was snap his fully functioning joints together (showing she is at least familiar with the "Head bone's connected to the neck bone" song), and didn't actually need to mess with his hardware to reboot him.
In Homestuck, this occurs in-universe: John Egbert gains the power to effectively rewrite the existing narrative without causing any timeline splits, which manifests in a couple of ways when he goes back and muddles with established events:
In two instances, he takes action that results in minor details changing, specifically, he stuck his arm through a portal that ended up causing his arm to appear in dozens of other panels of the comic. Likewise, he later disposed of a large amount of oil by dumping it elsewhere in the narrative. Andrew Hussie literally went through and edited the existing panels (and in some cases, flash animations) to include these changes.
Later on, he travels back to earlier events to manually retcon how they initially played out. In order to allow for both the changed versions and the original versions, Hussie created a password system: First time readers can continue reading normally, but people who have reached the point in the story where the retcons occur get passwords that allow them to view the alternate versions of the events.
Nikki in The KA Mics was told by the author that she was a fictional character without a name, was later named by a reader, then it was retconned that she was a sister to the ex-Valkyries Gertrude & Brunhilda & her name had always been Nikki & she didn't realize this because of amnesia.
In a 2003 Penny Arcade strip where Tycho volunteers as a Mall Santa at a pet store, Gabe mentions that Tycho hates animals. Years later, we would find out that Tycho loves animals, and is sexually attracted to them.
Word of God is that the neighborhood in Precocious is more compact than it used to be, partially so as to let Gemstone Estates and Copper Road interact more.
In Questionable Content, Hannelore's backstory has changed considerably since her first appearance, when she would refer to wacky interactions with other kids that her OCD caused her when she was in school. A later arc established that she never actually went to formal school or even interacted with other children, being raised by an AI on her father's space station until she was a young adult.
Comic book theme web comic Ret-Conned is named after this.
Early in the production of Sailor Moon Cosmos Arc, Servant Chaos was basically Mistress 9 with a different forehead symbol. She was later retconned to keep Mistress 9's hair, but now wore Princess Saturn's dress. Dialogue was also later changed to make more clear what happened to the time-traveling incarnation of Chibiusa.
Sluggy Freelance: In-universe example (that's fictionally not in-universe) in the Mind Screw guest story "The Sluggite Koan": Bun-bun's motivation for going after comic creator Pete Abrams is initially that he sees a Sluggy strip that is Not What It Looks Like (but looks heavily like it) and thinks Zoë has been Killed Off for Real. In the middle of his trip, he rages against his grief for her and declares that he doesn't care about her and, looking at the fourth wall, says "And no guest artist says otherwise if he values his spleen!" From there onwards, he's written as having a different motive.
Sonichu. The creator was trolled by people pretending to be Shigeru Miyamoto, who was talking to the creator, Chris, about a game development. When this troll said that would be impossible to make a game based of fanwork, another troll, posing as a lawyer pretending to be Jay-Z, advised Chris to change several aspects of the comic. What followed were so many terrible retcons, there's a whole Wiki about it. Due to her autism, the creator actually believed she was in contact with Shigeru Miyamoto and Jay Z the entire time.
Super Effective has done it a few times quietly—literally editing the comic and uploading a newer version. Changes include renaming Gary to Blue, for example.
In the early chapters of Weak Hero, Jack Kang states that he's the one responsible for messing up Ben's arm. When the actual event is shown, about ninety chapters later, this isn't the case at all — Ben's injury was caused by protecting Alex from collapsing debris as a result of Donald Na. Jack was there, but he had very little involvement in the fight.
Xawu retconned a typo that was pointed out on the comments.
In Yokoka's Quest, the prologue and chapters 1-3 were retouched prior to being printed in book form, with some of the changes essentially being retcons. These are mostly inconsequential, such as Yokoka and Yfa's home going from an empty room to being furnished with a rug, pillows, and a pile of feathers that Yfa sleeps on.
    Web Original 
Orion's Arm has made a number of retcons since it's creation. Femto-tech was removed due to physics problems. The number of people killed by GAIA was retconned a number of times in order to adjust the population numbers.
Whateley Universe: Word of God says that the author of the Phase novels only started years after the series started, and reinterpreted everything she didn't like about Phase's behavior in such a way that there were no outward changes (everything in prior stories was 'right' or 'slightly misheard') but all of Phase's actions were explained.
    Web Videos 
LG15: the resistance applied a couple of these to lonelygirl15, such as the revelation that Sarah was evil all along or that Jonas is a trait positive male.
Channel Awesome:
An actual plot point in To Boldly Flee in which all continuity errors in the Channel Awesome universe was an effect of the Plot Hole, a physical embodiment of, well, that trope. Specifically called out was The Spoony One and Doctor Insano being the same person in Kickassia, when in all other respects they are separate people.
Less forgivable is "The Review Must Go On". Context: To Boldly Flee was meant to be the Critic's swan song, where he spent most of the special locked in depression and only really become happy when he became the Plot Hole. After that, there was a new show called Demo Reel, led by a tragic Former Child Star called Donnie DuPre. Five episodes of that went by, and "The Review Must Go On" suddenly made it out of nowhere that "Critic couldn't comprehend the selfless act he performed" and Donnie's terrible life was just a punishment for him formed by purgatory. To say it was an Ass Pull is an understatement.
Everything you knew about TV Tropes is wrong!note 
Alternative Title(s): Ret Conned, Retroactive Continuity

Retcon / Anime & Manga
Mahou Sensei Negima!:
In the last page of chapter 238, Makie shows up with her friends in kid form, looking smaller than Negi. In the first page of the next chapter, in the very same scene, she is now in teenage form and Marshmallows Negi.
The posted "birth date" of the title character changed from the fairly vague "Summer 1993" to the even more vague "1994" between the magazine version of Chapter 10 and the publication of Volume 2. This works as a Revision, as it renders Negi's in-story usage of a historical Japanese method of age reckoning correct, but also makes determining his actual age more difficult.
Somewhere between volume 5 and 11 of the English-language Great Teacher Onizuka manga, the average age of the protagonist's class gets bumped from 14 to 16.
The Gundam canon has a pretty significant number of these.
Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam contains scenes where the titular Gundam does things such as turning its beam saber into a mile-long "sword of rage" and channeling the spirits of the dead to power itself up. Originally this was just attributed to pilot Kamille Bidan's incredible Newtype powers, but later works introduced the concept of the Biosensor, an experimental system in the Zeta which boosts a Newtype's abilities, and serves to allow these fantastic feats without completely destroying the Real Robot feel of the show.
Zeta introduced another, somewhat unusual example. At the start of the show, the Next Big Thing in mobile suit tech is the Movable Frame, a skeleton-like framework that allowed for greater flexibility and freedom of movement, which in turn allowed the creation of Transforming Mecha down the line. In order to justify this, it was said that all previous generations of MS were empty "shells" with their armor supporting the weight of all their internal machinery. While this concept does exist in real life (it's called Monocoque), the writers eventually realized that it doesn't make a lick of sense for giant robots, and over time this explanation has been mentioned less and less.
The resolution of the series itself in the final Compilation Movie, which not only changed the ending from a Downer Ending into a Bittersweet Ending, but also potentially alters the course of two related sequels drastically (if not does away with them entirely). Yoshiyuki Tomino, who created Gundam and directed the Zeta movies in specific, has said that he considers the movies an Alternate Timeline, but many fans like to believe that the movies shift the less-popular Gundam ZZ into Canon Discontinuity territory. Tomino then went on to write the CG short Gundam Evolve 5, which depicts a battle from Mobile Suit Gundam: Char's Counterattack with a more positive outcome; Tomino has said he considers the short to be the "New Translation" version of CCA.
Another rather famous example is Gundam Wing: Endless Waltz, which quietly replaces the TV series' Gundams (designed by Gundam veteran Kunio Okawara) with sleeker designs by Hajime Katoki via a Flash Back prologue. Fandom is split on the issue, and there's quite a bit of feuding over which designs are superior, despite the fact that they're supposed to be functionally identical. The manga Glory of the Losers (a retelling of Wing) retcons things further by showing that Wing Zero started off in its TV form (which was dubbed "Proto-Zero") and was later modified into the Endless Waltz version, with the angelic wings originating as an upgrade to Zechs Merquise's Tallgeese.
Gundam SEED has a couple of infamous examples:
SEED Special Edition, a Compilation Movie, retcons the death of Mu la Flaga by digitally erasing a sure sign of the character's death (his broken helmet floating by the wrecked Strike Gundam). Fans were none too happy about the writers retconning a meaningful character death just so said character could come back in SEED Destiny.
The HD Remaster of SEED alters the circumstances of Nicol Amalfi's death, changing it from an intentional but tragic act of violencenote  into a stupid accidentnote . Fans were up in arms over this one because Kira is often viewed as a Creator's Pet and retconning the death was seen as a ham-fisted attempt to absolve him of the murder.
One episode of Digimon Adventure 02 has a flashback of the season one characters giving up their ability to evolve past a certain level (and by extension, their ability to be of any use in a fight). This comes up right in the middle of the season, soon after the Applied Phlebotinum the now-reformed Ken was using to obstruct their evolution is destroyed, and basically comes across as a cheap excuse to keep the old characters out of the Competence Zone. It also gave Patamon and Gatomon (two heroes from 01 that made the main cast in 02) a reason to DNA digivolve.
Hayate the Combat Butler: For those who haven't read the manga, this seems to happen between the first and second seasons of the anime. In the last episode of the first season Ayumu and Hinagiku are shown to know each other (well enough for them to travel to the Parthenon together), but in the second season, they acted as if they'd never met. In the same episode, it's stated that Hayate's been Nagi's butler for over a year, whereas in the first episode of season 2, Klaus says Hayate's only been Nagi's butler for a month.

However, this is easily explained by the fact that the events of the last episode of the first season of the anime (Ayumu and Hina's parthenon trip and Hayate and Nagi's trip to the Aegean sea) were, in the original manga, side-stories that took place during the golden week holidays and that were out of sync with the rest of the series' continuity.
Bleach:
Some initial character designs are retconned beyond the bounds of the series' Art Evolution in later appearances, such as the location of Ulquiorra's hollow hole.
Aizen being an Unreliable Narrator and Urahara being stingy with the truth is used to explain discrepancies between what readers witness in the story and their descriptions of those events. Initially, Aizen claims Urahara was exiled for creating an illegal, untraceable gigai. "Turn Back the Pendulum" reveals that Aizen framed Urahara for illegal Hollowfication experiments, but Urahara's group escaped punishment by using Urahara's illegal gigai. Urahara claims Sado and Orihime developed their powers because they were affected by Ichigo's constantly leaking reiatsu and that the Hougyoku was dormant inside Rukia during that time, but Aizen later claims it was actually the Hougyoku that unlocked their powers. Urahara has a history of manipulating the truth to achieve certain results while Aizen claims to enjoy lying because he has a personal definition of "reality". Although Aizen states it's idiotic to trust a single word he says, the shadiness of both characters give the fandom a headache over how to interpret certain events.
Lyrical Nanoha:
In the third Megami sound stage, Hayate says that Fate is more of a sister to Vivio, and Nanoha says that while Fate loves Vivio, she is keeping some distance from her. In ViVid, Vivio says she still considers both of them her mothers, and Fate once refers to herself in the third person as "Fate-mama" while talking to Vivio.
Naruto:
In earlier manga chapters, Gaara had triple-pierced ears despite his automatic sand shield, which almost always prevents him from taking physical damage.
Gaara's name was stated to mean 'Demon who loves only himself' by his mother, a dying curse on the village for sacrificing her, and he was told this by the uncle who despite showing him kindness claimed to always hate him deep down for her death. Skip ahead to the war arc and his resurrected father reveals she loved Gaara all along, and that he told his uncle to lie about it (as well as force him into the assassination) as a test of character to see if Gaara could control Shukaku when confronted with such a horrible claim, which he didn't, obviously.
The Sage of the Six Paths is stated to be the first to utilize chakra and also the one who solely defeated the Ten-Tailed Beast. Along comes Hamura in Chapter 670, his previously-unheard of brother who is also the source of the Hyuga clan's Byakugan.
Boruto has retconned some stuff about the Byakugan. According to it, not all Hyuga unlock the Byakugan and the Byakugan requires training to unlock. This makes it more similar to the Sharingan; however, none of this was depicted in the original Naruto.
Some elements of the Distant Finale, Chapter 700, were later retconned. The character designs are off in Chapter 700 compared to how they'd later be in the Boruto manga and anime. Everyone looks younger and their clothes are different (for example Sarada wears a casual-looking sweater, tie, and skirt instead of her red ninja-looking outfit from Boruto). Sarada and Sakura's dialogue imply that Sasuke's present in Sarada's life, if busy and often away on missions. Naruto Gaiden changes this so that, due to a mission, Sasuke hasn't seen Sarada since she was a toddler. The chapter also includes character differences, such as Chocho being Fat and Proud instead of interested in dieting. In Chapter 700, Hinata is shown with long hair during Boruto's academy days but in Boruto, Hinata has short hair even at the start.
The Space Battleship Yamato movie was meant to end the story, so the ending has many core crew members, including Kodai and Yuki, dead with the Yamato destroyed in a suicide charge. After fan outcry, the movie was adapted into the second season TV series with a different ending so that the ship is not destroyed and most crew members live. Several movies and a third TV season later, the second movie is just claimed never to have happened.
In Eyeshield 21, Agon's hair is a walking retcon. In one flashback to his 10th grade year he had short blonde hair and in another he had incredibly long dreads. In middle school, depending on whose reminiscing, Agon either had short thick dreads, long thick dreads, short thin dreads, or shoulder-length blonde hair.
A couple instances in Fairy Tail:
Nirvana, a giant walking weapon, was initially drawns with 8 legs but suddenly had 6 when the method by which it had to be destroyed was determined. The characters explain this via Shrug of God in the Q&A section afterward, with Mirajane believing Nirvana just decided to drop them off for no reason while Lucy claims it dropped them because it wanted to walk faster. The anime removes this entirely by having Nirvana appear specifically with six legs upon its activation.
Lisanna, Mirajane and Elfman's deceased younger sister and Natsu's childhood friend, was revealed to have been transported to the Mirror World of Edolas, instead of having been killed when a monster-possessed Elfman attacked her. Meanwhile, she somehow still managed to be buried in the town's cemetery.
They found the body of the dead Edolas!Lisanna, which had switched places with Earthland!Lisanna due to the Anima, so the burial still makes sense.
Flashbacks in the manga showed Lisanna's guild mark was on her upper left arm, but when she comes back from Edolas, it's on her left leg instead. The anime tried to fix this by showing it being removed as she was taken by the Anima, but a more recent flashback in the Tartaros arc shows it on her leg despite this flashback taking place years before her trip to Edolas.
Early on in Soul Eater, Liz Thompson briefly remembers her and Patty's Backstory, saying that her life took a turn for the bizarre on that day that she got high and tried to mug a Shinigami (Kid). A couple dozen chapters later, it's instead revealed that Kid came to New York specifically to recruit the Thompson sisters as his weapons, no mugging involved. They went along for the ride, at least initially, to milk him for all the money and convenience he could provide them, before coming to admire him for real. The two events could have both happened though, since the later chapter didn't specifically deny the mugging. What could have happened is that he came looking for Liz and Patty, they tried to mug him but Kid got away, and he came back to them at later chance to recruit them.
Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's:
In the original Japanese version, we see that the five bearers of the Mark of the Dragon are Yusei (tail), Jack (wings), Luca (claw), and Aki (other claw). This is true for the English version too, with the fifth signer being unknown in both versions. Then, the English version mentioned that Rex Goodwin bears the final mark, before Japan even knew it. Because it was false information. Japan later aired their episode to show that Rudger has the head of the dragon. After this, the English version just pretended that they never said Goodwin had it.
When the Signers first realize that their marks look like the Crimson Dragon, Yusei incorrectly states (in the English version) that his is the head, not the tail. And it became even more confusing when Rudger and Goodman were defeated, with Yusei actually gaining the real head, and transferring his tail mark to Crow. This was barely even addressed in the English version, despite the fact that it's tattooed onto their freaking arms.
Pokémon:
In his first appearance, Santa Claus had a Ponyta pulling his sleigh, because the franchise didn't have any deer Pokémon in Gen I. But when Gen II came out and Stantler was introduced, all further Santa appearances had him with a Stantler pulling the sleigh.
This one's dub only. When Ash returned to Viridian City for his eighth Kanto Badge, Ash said in the dub that it had been a year since he was last there. Later, in the short accompanying the third Pokémon movie, Ash and co. celebrate the (presumably first) anniversary of Ash and Pikachu meeting.
Another dub-induced one. In the episode introducing Brock, it was said that his mother passed away in the dub (which wasn't the case otherwise). Later on, come Pokémon Chronicles, Brock's mom returned to the Pewter City Gym and the dub treated things as if they never said she had died.
Pikachu was retconned to have a baby pre-evolution Pichu, and for the females to have a clefted tail. There's no problem with declaring that Ash's Pikachu had been a male the whole time, but it means that the Pikachu village they encountered back in season 1 had no newborns and no females.
When Lyra appeared in Sinnoh, Brock and Ash acted like they experienced Pokeathelons when they didn't. The event was created for the Gold and Silver remakes.
The Best Wishes had what was essentially a retcon, though the original eps never aired. Team Plasma was supposed to meet and battle Team Rocket early in the Unova storyline, but the episodes were shelved because of the 2011 earthquake in Japan-part of the storyline involved the destruction of several buildings. Some hoped they might be aired later, but instead, the two teams finally met in the 'Season 2, Episode N' arc, the 'Adventures in Unova' arc in the US. This retconned the plots of the unaired eps out of existence.
Team Rocket's Meowth was originally the sole bipedal Meowth. Since Hoenn, several other bipedal Meowth have appeared without question. The only thing weird about Meowth now is that he can talk.
In the The World is Still Beautiful manga, Livius is said to be 15 until chapter 40 claims he's 12. The anime clears this up, with Nike's father specifically telling Livius that Nike's grandma ascended the throne when she was "not much older than [him]". This is in contrast to the manga scene it adapted where he says she was 15, "the same age as [Livius] is now". Also, if the manga omakes of them as students are to be trusted, Livius/Livita is still in elementary school which leaves him to be 12 at the most.
Jaco the Galactic Patrolman retcons quite a lot about the Dragon Ball series.
The entirety of the Bardock: The Father of Goku special was retconned. In that movie, Bardock was shown as a man with the ability to see the future who made a futile, last stand against Freeza after forseeing the death of his planet, only to die against Freeza with his last thoughts being of his youngest son. Even his relationship with his comrades is explored; one of the driving aspects of Bardock is to avenge the death of his best friend. Dragon Ball Minus, part of the Jaco manga, takes the opposite approach. Bardock's comrades are entirely removed, landing them as filler only entities, and instead, Bardock's relationship with his children and wife is focused on a little more. Contrast with Bardock's rather cold nature in the original movie, he's shown to have an actual loving relationship with his wife, and actually sends Kakarot away out of concern for his safety when Freeza called all the Saiyans back to Vegeta. He even asks on Raditz, who he entirely glossed over in the movie. Additionally, Freeza knew of the Super Saiyan God, information he was never stated to know in the original canon.
Even Goku's age is retconned; ironically, retconned back to what it originally was stated to be by Goku early on. As of Dragon Ball Minus, Goku was sent to Earth when he was three. Bulma was 5 at the time. This would make him 14 during the beginning of Dragon Ball; exactly the age he said he was when Bulma asked, despite it later being changed to 12 after Goku 'learned' to count. Of course, with Goku being Goku, he may have just counted wrong.
Another small retcon? In the manga, Bulma was stated to be on 'summer vacation' when she was hunting for the Dragon Balls, but as of the Jaco manga, she was stated to have graduated University at age 16. The details are just plain muddled now.
Dragon Ball Z: The Saiyan arc gets severely retconned by the Freeza arc, to the point that the entire plot is basically erased.
At the very beginning of the arc, Raditz mentions that planet Vegeta, the Saiyans' original homeworld, was destroyed by a meteor. The next arc 'reveals' that it was actually destroyed by Freeza, who then told everyone that a meteor did it.
Raditz also mentions that the Saiyans are the strongest warrior race in the universe and run the planet trade racket. Come the next arc, Freeza's unnamed race (or at least his family) is widely known as the strongest clan in the universe, and they run the planet trade instead.
In the Saiyan arc, Vegeta is his own boss and heads off to Earth without a second thought on a whim immediately after hearing about the Dragon Balls. In the Freeza arc, it's retconned so that he was a minion of Freeza, and him going to Earth was a rebellious act (which weirdly was not mentioned by either of his subordinates).
While often forgotten today, it was actually Vegeta who was first introduced as the strongest in the universe (he outright calls himself this in his internal monologue, so no room for lying or an Unreliable Narrator). This was explained by him being the top dog in a race said to be the universe's greatest warriors. Come the Freeza arc, suddenly Vegeta admits that he's weaker than Dodoria and Zarbon, and their boss Freeza is a guy who's literally thousands of times stronger than that, because... he... just kinda is.
In the Saiyan arc, Vegeta states that he wants to get the dragon balls to wish for immortality so he can enjoy a lifetime of violence forever. Nappa agrees with him. In the Freeza arc, he wants immortality to defeat Freeza.
Nappa states in the middle of the arc that Vegeta's name came from the planet itself; he was a Saiyan noble named after the Saiyans' homeworld because he was the strongest and cruelest of them and thus the greatest representative of their race. In the Freeza arc, Vegeta is said to be a prince named after his dad, the king, who gave his name to the planet.
It was stated by Toriyama through a 30th anniversary celebration manga◊ that all of this came about due to Vegeta's unexpected popularity; he had intended for Vegeta to be killed by Goku, but his popularity led him to spare Vegeta and create Frieza to take over Vegeta's role and be killed off in his place.
Dragon Ball Super:
Apparently, Future Trunks' hair color. It goes from being purple to blue. Episode 52 includes moments from The History of Trunks, which also show this change. What makes this odd is the fact that the present-day Trunks still has purple hair. In turn, this is based on a problem with the anime adaptations as Trunks always had the same hair color as Bulma in the manga.
The "permanent" nature of the Potara earrings turns out to have been a miscommunication; they're only truly permanent if a Kai is involved, and otherwise wear off after one hour. Since the previous explanation for Vegito's defusion was speculated to be A Wizard Did It combined with Your Magic Is No Good Here, this is generally regarded as an improvement, especially since it doesn't outright contradict the previous events.
When introduced in Dragon Ball, Master Roshi claimed that the Immortal Phoenix granted him eternal life, and later died after he fed it tainted bird seeds. However, in episode 76 of Super, Roshi says the Paradise Herb in the Forest of Terror will let him live another 1,000 years, implying this is how he has stayed alive for over 300 years.
In the Cell Saga Future Trunks mentions Yajirobe was one of the many people killed by Android 17 and 18 in his timeline, and he is shown being killed in the flashback by 18 after she breaks his sword, however in the Goku Black Saga, Yajirobe is one of the few people from the present who is still alive in Future Trunks' timeline.
The first episode of Kill la Kill has the Big Bad Satsuki obviously kill a student, something that we later see is out-of-character for her. A future episode shows the boy alive.
In Wandering Son, when Cool Big Sis Yuki met Takatsuki it was heavily implied she was drawn to him because she knew he was biologically female and nervous about being out as a boy for the first time. Despite this several chapters later she seems genuinely surprised when he reveals his sex, though she could have been surprised at Nitori coming out.
This is combined with Early Installment Weirdness in Fullmetal Alchemist. In their backstory episode, Edward and Alphonse are sparring when Ed kicks his brother into the water. A much later episode shows that both had previously thought that getting Al's blood seal wet would kill him, and are surprised when it doesn't.
Sgt. Frog: A fairly inoffensive one though. The official databook for the manga released alongside volume 23 changed the ages of several characters compared to their initial ones in previous databooks. Natsumi and Koyuki are 14 years old in the present, but now were 13 in the beginning of the series and Mutsumi now is said to be 16 years old (which would make him 15 in the beginning of the series), rather than 18 like in the previous official publications. In general, the new official ages seem to match up with the ones used by the original anime, although Mutsumi still is one year older than his anime self.
A Certain Magical Index: Miracle of Endymion film revolves around Academy City's space elevator, a giant tower sprouting out of the middle of the city. It definitely wasn't there before. In A Certain Scientific Railgun, Uiharu very pointedly tells Saten that the tower just happened to be outside the panel in every single previous shot of the city skyline, and gives a few brief flashbacks of previous arcs from new angles, with the tower obvious in the background.
The Mysterious Cities of Gold: The Golden Condor's design changes between the first and the second season. Its landing gears are completely different, exhaust ports are visible in the tail, and it now has a ladder hidden in its beak that the children "discovered" during the Time Skip.
The Majin Tantei Nougami Neuro anime retcons almost all the random culprits from earlier in the manga into guinea pigs of HAL and the electronic drug. This is most likely because the anime ended before the last arc involving the New Bloodline could be animated and as such, HAL is the last arc antagonist faced by Neuro and co.

Retcon / Comic Books
Any time a comic has on its cover the following phrase: "EVERYTHING YOU KNEW ABOUT [X] IS WRONG!", look out, Retcon incoming, full force.
Star Wars: Jedi vs. Sith is basically an official Fix Fic that fits together disparate elements from the Prequel trilogy that conflict with the original trilogy (1,000 years vs. 1,000 generations for the Republic), elements from the Prequel trilogy that conflict with each other, the Valley of the Jedi from Dark Forces: Jedi Knight, some novellas that were in part themselves retcons for the Dark Forces saga, among other things.
In the Disney Comics, The Phantom Blot's identity was retconned to be a complete mystery. In the first issue he appeared in, not only was his face seen, but his face resembled Walt Disney. Arguably, this was a good decision, giving the Blot an air of mystery.
When the 3.75" G.I. Joe figures first sold, G.I. Joe was envisaged as an American anti-terrorist task force. When they were made available in the UK, they were sold under the name Action Force. They were accompanied by a comic of the same name which established that Action Force was an international anti-terrorist organisation, of which G.I. Joe was the name of the American branch (and to which Action Force would also change its name later on).
In the Flemish "De Rode Ridder" series, based on a series of books of the same name, album 131 provided a retcon of the meaning of the title: for about 64 books and 130 comic albums, it had been thought that the title referred to the nickname of Johan the protagonist "The Red Knight", based on his red tunic, 130 revealed that actually Johan was the "Rode" Knight because he belonged to the family of the historical(!) Lords of Rode.
The French comic series Dungeon: The Early Years provides one of the best Retcons ever so far. In the very first issue of this Funny Animal gritty comic, the Dungeon Keeper has a look at a picture of his lost love who looks human. Then, in a prequel album, we see her alive under the traits of a snake. Then the authors showed a portrait painter picturing a bird lady as a human and explaining "it's a style that people like these days".
My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic (IDW). Originally, Nightmare Moon was portrayed to be a Superpowered Evil Side of Princess Luna, then the comic changes it so that Nightmare Moon was the product of the Nightmare forces possessing Luna, though this retcon is based on a Word of God from Lauren Faust saying that Nightmare Moon was brought about via an force separate from Luna.
Geoffery St. John of Archie Comics' Sonic the Hedgehog was retconned from the son of the king's guard who hated Overlanders for killing his father to the son of the king's guard who partnered himself up with Ixis Naugus in an attempt to free him and overthrow King Acorn for allowing this to happen. It also retconned his choice of people for King Acorn's Secret Service from "the best people for the job" to "people with questionable pasts that he could pin the blame on should he get caught". It's said that he genuinely loved Hershey the Cat, married her and abandoned the plan, but when she was killed off-screen, it pushed him into the Despair Event Horizon and back into the plan.
Sally's various hair/fur coloring was retconned to her falling into a vat of chemicals and subsequent washings changing the colors.
Following a Time Skip, Antoine seemingly Took a Level in Jerkass as he was shown to be massively cold towards his then-former Love Interest Bunnie Rabbot. It was later revealed that he was actually his Alternate Universe Evil Twin Patch and that the real Antoine was in his universe.
Issue #40 of The Powerpuff Girls (DC run) bore the title "Everything You Know About The Powerpuff Girls Is Wrong," but this is subverted as it is merely a class assignment to invent origin stories about the girls, using the origins of Superman, Spiderman and the Fantastic Four as parallels.
Both Moose's given name and surname have changed various times in Archie Comics.
Asterix: In Obelix and Co., Obelix celebrates his birthday but Asterix does not. 20 years later, the short story "The Birth of Asterix" changed this to Asterix and Obelix having the same birthday. This idea was maintained in "Asterix And The Actress" and "Asterix and Obelix's Birthday: The Golden Book". The first live-action movie however went back to the original idea.
The Transformers (IDW):
Optimus Prime and Megatron establish at one point that they briefly met at Rodion police station when the future Prime, then known as Orion Pax, saved Megatron from being beaten to death by Whirl, and then their next encounter was the Battle for Sherma Bridge during the War. Autocracy would later show Orion and Megatron forming an Enemy Mine against Zeta Prime's rampage, before Megatron betrayed Orion and left him for dead - leading to him finding the Matrix of Leadership and becoming Optimus Prime. Officially, Sherma Bridge happened before Autocracy, but that doesn't fit with the Decepticons not forming a dedicated military until Zeta's attack.
Arcee was initially characterised as the victim of a forced sex change that left her homicidally unstable and generally No Fun To Be Around. Because the implications of having the one female Transformer in the main comics be both violently insane and unwillingly transgender were somewhere between "troubling" and "yikes", subsequent authors nudged this until Arcee was always trans, had genuinely sought out the Mad Scientist in question in order to have the procedure done, and the lengthy period of murderous instability afterwards had been due to Jhiaxus providing nothing in the way of aftercare once he'd finished. For a lesser change, she also started out being emphatically an Autobot, before subsequent comics got rid of her Autobrand and left her as a neutral party.
Also in female Transformer retcons, the cis-female character Nautica was established to have an "estriol-positive" spark type. James Roberts then thought better of implying that Cybertronian gender was down to spark type rather than personal identity and altered Nautica's spark type to being "ferrum-positive", then had a couple of scientist characters mention estriol-positive as a spark type whose existence had been discredited.
Impactor was initially stated to be forged (the Cybertronian equivalent of natural birth) and a Point One Percenter (unusually strong and durable; Optimus Prime is a Point One Percenter, and Megatron is a POP spark inserted into a manufactured body through time travel), but a later comic established that every defendant at the Aequitas trials, which included Impactor, was constructed cold (a form of artificial birth). Subsequent reprints of the panel in question substituted Grimlock instead.
Garfield: His 9 Lives retcons the origin of Odie in Garfield's life. Whereas originally in the comic strips Odie was the pet of Jon Arbuckle's friend Lyman, who appeared for a certain number of strips and then vanished altogether without explanation, the origin told in His 9 Lives is that Jon saw that Garfield was lonely and so bought Odie from the pet store — the same pet store that Garfield was in — and brought him home to keep Garfield company.

Retcon / DC Universe
A rather controversial retcon happened in the Green Lantern series. When DC wanted to reimagine the series, Hal Jordan (the Green Lantern) pulled a Face–Heel Turn and became a super-villain named Parallax, who killed all the other Green Lanterns. Then, he turned back to Face in time to sacrifice himself to save the world. After this, Hal was replaced by Kyle Rayner. Kyle brought an upswing in sales for the book for some time, but eventually DC decided to bring Hal back. In order to smooth over his Face Heel Turn with fans, it was revealed that he never was actually evil, he was possessed by a cosmic being of fear named Parallax.
This change was also another entry in the long list of retcons of the Green Lantern's "yellow weakness." First, Green Lantern was weak against the color yellow because of a necessary impurity in his power, then it was revealed that the restriction wasn't necessary at all, it was something artificial the Guardians imposed on the Green Lanterns to keep them from going power-crazy. When Kyle became the only Green Lantern, the yellow impurity was removed. In Green Lantern: Rebirth it was retconned so that the yellow impurity was caused by the alien entity Parallax being trapped inside the Central Power Battery that gave all the Green Lanterns their power, and Kyle didn't have the yellow weakness because Parallax had been set free by Hal. Since then, the current manifestation of "the yellow impurity" is that the Green Lantern can only use his power against the color yellow if he knows the (most current retconned) source of the yellow impurity, and consciously overcomes his fear.
A rather controversial retcon by the same author as the Green Lantern example was in The Flash: Rebirth. Barry Allen came back (which was fine) but now instead of the previous "Happy Family" he had, his father was accused of the murder of Allen's mother. Really it was Professor Zoom, who went back in time and killed Barry's mom to ruin Barry's life.
Another Flash Retcon involved Wally West asking Spectre to erase the memories of his identity from everyone on earth after the new Zoom tried to kill his wife. Spectre did this but left a loophole so that certain characters would remember everything when Wally took his mask off or put it on in front of them. His wife left him for a while, but came back at the end of the arc. Hilarious in Hindsight when you realize it did the same basic thing Brand New Day set out to do (Make their identities secret and make them single, not that the last part was a reason for doing the Flash arc) and did it better.
Following Green Lantern: Rebirth, the colored lanterns of the Emotional Spectrum are introduced to the Green Lantern mythos, having retroactively existed alongside the Green Lantern Corps. Their past can then be elaborated on with flashbacks or time travel, often sharing a history with the Green Lanterns.
Deconstructed in Cary Bates and Greg Weisman's post-Crisis relaunch of Captain Atom for DC, in which the eponymous hero (Anti-Hero? Protagonist?) has one origin, which the military covers up, instead publicizing a "false" origin, which was Cap's pre-Crisis Charlton Comics origin. Later on, when Cap lost his powers temporarily, he wore the costumes that he had worn in the Silver Age, because, after all, the public in-story would be familiar with those costumes, having been told he used to wear them.
DC's 1991 event Armageddon 2001 turned out to be a huge mess at the end of the day (isn't it always?) and a major source of Character Development for one Hank Hall (Hawk of Hawk and Dove), which continued through Zero Hour until his death in the pages of the 2000s Justice Society of America relaunch. It also had the nasty effect of unceremoniously killing off the second Dove (Dawn Granger) in a cheap shock scene. However in the later pages of JSA, a big retcon by Geoff Johns would unfold: The woman who the JSA thought was a comatose Lyta Hall turned out to actually be Dove disguised by Mordru in some strange concealment spell (apparently they had to retcon Lyta to Dove at the time due to some issue with Vertigo too). The explanation of the retcon was quite convoluted and Squick: Monarch did not actually kill Dove, Mordru simply made an illusion to make Hawk think she was dead. Then Mordru possessed Hawk and made him rape the comatose yet still aware Dove, impregnating her with his child. So Dove was kept concealed and pregnant for who knows HOW long until she was found by the JSA, disguised as Lyta for some reason who was disguised as yet another woman, and yet she winds up strangely calm and relatively unaffected considering that she was raped and put into such a situation. And the baby? Wound up being a reincarnated Hector Hall. Not surprisingly, little reference has been made to exactly how Dawn cheated death ever since, she just did.
After her return, Dawn then mysteriously gained a younger sister named Holly, however this change was received even worse due to it contradicting various things in the '80s Hawk and Dove series, including Dawn being an only child and the powers being unable to pass on to anyone else. Unsurprisingly, Holly wound up becoming C-List Fodder down the line as it seems no writer could figure out what exactly to do with her or how to portray her.
As noted, DC's All-Star Squadron is the Trope Namer. A book in the '80s, set during World War II, introducing a never-before-mentioned over-arching superhero group. It filled in a LOT of gaps in the continuity of the time, picking up dangling threads and plot holes (Why didn't Spectre & Superman just end the War? for example), and reviving many long-forgotten characters. Writer Roy (& Dann) Thomas had to work a little harder when Crisis on Infinite Earths hit, but still continued with Young All-Stars.
The New 52:
Just a year in and they're already contradicting themselves. Teen Titans had Tim Drake mention his time as Robin and that there had been prior versions of the Titans. When the trade paperback came out, this was revised with Tim always being Red Robin (never regular Robin, though still Batman's sidekick), and omitting mentions of prior Titans.
The Titans were also originally referenced in the Batwoman series, with Flamebird claiming to have been part of the team and having fought Deathstroke. This dialogue also found itself edited when it came time for the trade paperback to be released.
The thing with Tim never having been a Robin was left in when it came to the trades collecting Batman, with the Bat-Computer specifically mentioning it. Oops.
Convergence: Plastic Man and the Freedom Fighters retcons Plastic Man into being one of Earth-X's Freedom Fighters, when he'd never previously been a member note .
Black Canary:
Black Canary naturally always had black hair, pre-Crisis and post-Crisis. She used to wear wigs but eventually just grew her hair out and dyed it. New 52 retconned her into being naturally blonde. Eventually that was retconned away, and Black Canary is back to bleaching her naturally black hair.
Starman retconned Happily Married Dinah Drake as having briefly cheated on her husband with (also Happily Married) Ted Knight. This was briefly alluded to in JLA: Year One, but otherwise, what with Dinah being dead, it rarely comes up.
The canary scream is either due to radiation, a wizard's curse, a metagene, or human experimentation involving aliens.
Captain Carrot has always operated under cartoon physics, but they were the burlesqued physics of Golden Age comics, not the outright Toon Physics of Looney Tunes as shown in The Multiversity. No previous incarnation of the character, even relatively recent ones, could possibly have survived decapitation.
During The Judas Contract arc of The New Teen Titans it was stated that Terra was doing everything by her own free will. In the 2000s, it was shown that Deathstroke had actually drugged her into behaving that way.
DC Rebirth has been this to the New 52 as a whole:
The Wally West introduced in the New 52, who has given a Race Lift, was revealed not to be the actual Wally, but one of Barry and Wally's relatives who was named the same.
The actual Wally? He'd been pulled into the Speed Force and is actually the original Wally.
The biggest change? The New 52 universe is actually the original universe, having been transformed by an entity implied to be Dr. Manhattan.
Superman Reborn furthered these changes:
Superman's origin and past exploits all mostly happened, thanks to the pre-Crisis and New 52 Superman and Lois Lanes merging. The events of Superman: Secret Origin, his 80s and 90s adventures, his marriage to Lois Lane and other things all happened. The New 52 adventures happened while Lois was pregnant with Jon Kent and Jon was born in the Fortress of Solitude, not the Flashpoint Batcave as established in Convergence. The events of Superman: Lois and Clark are explained as part of a sabbatical where Superman focused more on being a father than a hero, allowing Lex Luthor to become his own Superman.
As a consequence, all heroes have aged up, having been active for 15 years, not 5.

Retcon / Batman
In another comic-book retcon, Batman is now known as a superhero who refuses to use a gun or to kill (well, most of the time). This was not true in the first year or so, although he didn't actually kill humans very often and most villains died from Karmic Death. See Pay Evil unto Evil. Another notable case concerns events in the story arc Hush. The titular villain appears revealed as long dead Robin Jason Todd, before he turns out to be an imposter (and not the real Hush, at that). Later, a retcon revises the story so that it was a resurrected Todd after all, but he escaped to be replaced by the imposter mid-battle.
Since while everyone's histories were changed for the New 52, Batman's was largely unchanged — meaning while superheroes only appeared 5 years prior to its events, Batman had to be in action for ten because he still had four Robins in his history!
Birds of Prey: In the Blackhawk comic series, when Zinda Blake was brainwashed by Killer Shark to be his partner Queen Killer Shark, she had no loyalty to him. She abandoned Killer Shark to escape the Blackhawks twice in Blackhawks #200 and #204. And when Killer Shark and Queen Killer Shark capture the Blackhawks in #225, she betrays him, threatens his henchman to turn on him, and imprisons him with the Blackhawks. In Birds of Prey, her brainwashed personally is shown to be completely loyal to Killer Shark, with her being completely in love and devoted to him, to the point that it's implied that she has been sleeping with him in the past.
Despite the fact that Cassandra Cain's entire upbringing was a never ending training from hell, she did love her father, and yet she ran away from him. The reason was that her first kill was the very first time she had witnessed death up close and due to her body reading abilities she thought it to be very, very, scary. Thus she found out her upbringing was evil. Now enter the last issue of Adam Beechen's mini series about her where it is revealed that she hated her dad all along, and that she had actually witnessed her father committing murder up close many times before her first kill.
Stephanie Brown died at the end of War Games, as after she was tortured by Black Mask, Leslie Thompkins withheld vital medical treatment. Her autopsy photos were shown to prove the dangers of crime-fighting to Misfit. Batman never had a memorial case for her because "she was never really a Robin". This wasn't a very popular decision. Except she never died: Leslie faked everything because her secret identity was compromised, her body was switched with an overdose victim with a similar body type, and Batman knew this all along making his relationship with Tim even more strained since he neglected to clue him in. Here's Shortpacked! on the last one.
The New 52:
Just a year in and they're already contradicting themselves. Teen Titans had Tim Drake mention his time as Robin and that there had been prior versions of the Titans. When the trade paperback came out, this was revised with Tim always being Red Robin (never regular Robin, though still Batman's sidekick), and omitting mentions of prior Titans.
The Titans were also originally referenced in the Batwoman series, with Flamebird claiming to have been part of the team and having fought Deathstroke. This dialogue also found itself edited when it came time for the trade paperback to be released.
The thing with Tim never having been a Robin was left in when it came to the trades collecting Batman, with the Bat-Computer specifically mentioning it. Oops.
Dick Grayson and Barbara Gordon's relationship was retconned in the 1990s. Pre-Crisis, Barbara was almost a decade older than Dick and the two had a purely platonic relationship. Since the '90s, however, Barbara (now aged down to be either the same age as Dick, if not slightly younger) is treated as one of Dick's first loves dating back to his days as Robin.

Retcon / Superman
His origin, early years, and powers have been revamped a ridiculous number of times just in "official" comic book continuity (and not counting in-story changes). Probably the most notable and drastic example took place in John Byrne's "Man of Steel," commissioned by DC in the 1980s to "clean up" the past several decades of Superman continuity by revamping his origin and the story of how he began his superhero career. Among other things, this retcon scaled back Superman's powers from the levels they had been inflated to (although they have since begun to creep back up a bit), re-established Superman as the only surviving Kryptonian (that one didn't stick either), and wiped out previous continuity in which Clark Kent had a hero career as a teenager in Smallville using the name Superboy, during which time he also befriended the young Lex Luthor.
That last retcon is also notable for completely borking the continuity of the Legion of Super-Heroes comic, since the eponymous Legion was introduced in the Silver Age as a group of thirtieth-century teenagers who were inspired to form their own "hero club" by stories of Superboy's exploits. The Legion's writers at the time tried to patch things up by, variously, establishing that Superboy had only existed in a pocket universe, killing off the pocket universe Superboy, revamping one-shot character Mon-El into a Superboy Expy, further rejiggering the timeline by having Mon-El kill the Time Trapper, and finally scrapping and rebooting the whole damn thing during the Zero Hour crossover in 1994. The Legion of Super-Heroes was then rebooted again in 2001, and then retconned again in 2007 back to a variant on the original continuity, with some adjustments. By this point, alternate timelines, retcons, and reboots are a fact of life for Legion fans.
One of the biggest things was the origins of Superman's powers. Originally his powers were inherently genetic because he was from a race of "supermen" — this can be found in the prologue of several Fleischer shorts. But after the horrors of World War II thoroughly discredited such fascination with eugenics, it was rewritten that his powers came from Earth's yellow sun. Additionally, Superman's strength and invulnerability were attributed to being super-dense. Post-Crisis, his powers came directly from the yellow sunlight. When Superman met the "pocket Superboy", the latter wiped the mat with the adult Supes, because he had pre-Crisis power.
Pre-Crisis, Superman's invulnerability and powers manifested immediately, leading to the adventures of "Superbaby". Post-Crisis, it took 18 years for Clark to develop his superpowers fully.
Another major Superman retcon that most people don't know about is his attitude. Siegel and Shuster originally wrote him as very rough and aggressive. On one occasion he kidnapped a slumlord, trapped the man in one of his own shoddy buildings, and threatened to collapse the whole structure on top of the guy if he didn't promise to improve conditions for his tenants. He also "accidentally" snapped the neck of a wife beater. A far cry from the Big Blue Boy Scout we all know and love today. World War II shifted his priorities into patriotism and he became a champion for "Truth, Justice and the American Way". When the Comics Code Authority came into being in the early 50s, its restrictions on characters' behavior ensured Superman became really square.
Speaking of the Legion of Super-Heroes, another example that's pretty much like the Trope Picture is the Lightning siblings. Lightning Lad got his powers by being struck by the lightning of some monsters. Then it's revealed he has an older brother who was there as well! Then it's revealed he has a twin sister, who was also there!
Also happens to Superman's cousin, Supergirl. Not only have there been four separate versions, but the pre-New 52's version's history became so convoluted on its own that Sterling Gates just retconned it out in issue 35, to give her the simple story we all thought was true before. The reason for the massive continuity snarl around Supergirl is because of an editorial mandate that Superman be the only surviving Kryptonian when his own continuity was rewritten and simplified after Crisis on Infinite Earths. This caused obvious problems for Supergirl (which in turn broke the Legion of Super-Heroes, among other things, since it was heavily interconnected with her), and necessitated increasingly convoluted explanations until they finally just threw up their hands, admitted that casual readers would always assume she was Superman's surviving cousin regardless, and switched it back to that.
Superman Reborn: Superman's origin and past exploits all mostly happened, thanks to the pre-Crisis and New 52 Superman and Lois Lanes merging. The events of Superman: Secret Origin, his 80s and 90s adventures, his marriage to Lois Lane and other things all happened. The New 52 adventures happened while Lois was pregnant with Jon Kent and Jon was born in the Fortress of Solitude, not the Flashpoint Batcave as established in Convergence. The events of Superman: Lois and Clark are explained as part of a sabbatical where Superman focused more on being a father than a hero, allowing Lex Luthor to become his own Superman.

Retcon / Marvel Universe
In Adam: Legend of the Blue Marvel, Adam Brashear, the Blue Marvel, was established as being an active superhero since the 60's and 70's.
Agents of Atlas revealed that the Golden Age heroine Venus is, contrary to previous portrayals, not the goddess of the same name who had her own series and joined the Champions (in order to cut the knot of a particular Continuity Snarl). Aphrodite was not amused.
Agents of Atlas reveals the 1950's Marvel Boy, Robert Grayson, was an Uranian Eternal, brainwashed into believing he was Robert Grayson.
Age of Ultron and Original Sin reveals Angela was always part of the Marvel Universe, being Odin's first born, and the half-sister of Thor. The Nine Realms always had a tenth realm, Heven, that had been cut off from the world tree Yggdrasil.
Alias establishes Jessica Jones went to the same high school as Peter Parker, at the same time Peter was attending high school.
Alpha Flight
In Alpha Flight #12, James Hudson appears to die. He is resurrected in Alpha Flight #25, where it is revealed James Hudson was transported to Ganymede and is saved by the Q`wrrlln. In issue #26, this is shown to be a ruse made up by the android Delphine Courtney; John Byrne intended to point out the ridiculousness of superhero resurrection stories. Issues #87-90 reveal James Hudson really was transported there, and the events on Ganymede were no longer just a story.
During Bill Mantlo's run, Puck was revealed to have originally been a tall human whose height was reduced by the curse of the Black Raazer, so he was cured and remained active in his "normal" height for a while, and Northstar was revealed to be half fairy due to having a parent from Alfheim. Both of these details were eventually reversed and ignored. {Well, Northstar's origin turned out to be a lie cooked up by Loki, while the Master of the World restored Puck to his shorter yet youthful self. Then these revelations were never brought up again.)
Battle Scars establishes Nick Fury, Jr. is Nick Fury's son, and there is an Earth-616 Phil Coulson.
Black Panther vol. 4 retcons Klaw's origin, how T'Chaka was killed by Klaw, how T'Chaka fought Captain America, and how T'Challa and Storm first met each other.
Captain America
Avengers #4 establishes Captain America and Bucky went missing in action when a plane exploded in mid-air, but in the earlier Captain America Comics, they are still alive and continue having adventures past the date of the explosion. In What If? #4, taking place in regular continuity, it is explained the Captain America in those stories was William Nasland, the Spirit of '76, taking on the role of Captain America. Jeff Mace took on the role of Captain America, following the death of Nasland. Fred Davis took on the role of Bucky during both Nasland and Mace's career as Captain America. Nasland and Davis' post-war adventures, as part of the All-Winners Squad, was a continuation of the Invaders and the Liberty Legion.
Captain America #153-156 introduced the "Commie-Smasher" Cap of the 1950s, William Burnsidenote , and his Bucky, Jack Monroe, who'd taken up the mantle some time after Mace and Davis had retired. Burnside had discovered a Nazi copy of the Super Soldier Serum, and had himself surgically altered to resemble Steve Rogers, going so far as to legally changing his name to "become" Rogers. However, his imperfect serum drove him and Jack mad, causing the government to put them on ice until such a time as they could be cured. However, a far right-leaning low-level employee let them loose, where they fought the original Cap, The Falcon, and Agent 13. Burnside was later used by Doctor Faustus as the Grand Director of his neo-Nazi organization, the National Front, while Monroe was saved by S.H.I.E.L.D. and fixed up enough to become a hero in his own right, taking up the identity Nomad.
Captain America #218-220 explains Captain America did not end up immediately frozen in the Arctic Circle after falling into the English Channel, but first encountered General Dekker, and was then placed in suspended animation and frozen in the Arctic Circle.
Captain America: Sentinel of Liberty #6 reveals there was a Revolutionary War hero, Steven Rogers, who could be considered the first Captain America.
Captain America vol 4 suggests Captain America being frozen in the Arctic Circle was part of a plot by the U.S. Government to interfere with Captain America preventing the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This story has not been addressed since, and is probably Canon Discontinuity.
Captain America vol 5 establishes Bucky survived the plane explosion in the flashback in Avengers #4, and went on to become the Winter Soldier.
Dr. Erskine was originally named Prof. Reinstein. The name discrepancy was later reconciled with "Reinstein" being a code name used for the chief scientist of Project: Rebirth, which was passed on from Erksine after his death to the scientist who continued the project as shown in Truth: Red, White, and Black that produced Isaiah Bradley, the original "black Captain America".
Captain America's costume was even subject to a retcon! In his very first appearance in Captain America Comics #1, the red and white stripes at his waistline wrapped around his back, but from issue #2 onward through the short-lived "Commie-Smasher" revival in the 50s, the stripes were only present on the front of his costume, leaving his back solid blue save for a white star. When Cap was revived in Avengers #4, the stripes wrapped around to his back again, and The Invaders (and other Cap stories set in WWII) would show that his costume was always this way, while Burnside's Cap uniform from the 50s had the solid blue back.
A pretty minor one, all things considered, but Frank Miller retconned what age Daredevil was when his father was killed. Originally, he was already in college. In Frank Miller's miniseries, Daredevil: The Man Without Fear, Matt is younger, and is instead in 12th grade. So instead of his father pressuring him to be important and Matt studying and then enrolling in law right before his father died, Matt was pressured to study and picked law... but didn't necessarily have to follow through, since he had already acted as a vigilante at the time and his father was dead.
Deadpool:
Deadpool was retroactively added to the Weapon X program; he is not present in Weapon X stories published before his first appearance.
In issue #34 of his first ongoing series, Deadpool's Arch-Enemy T-Ray reveals that Deadpool is not actually Wade Wilson, but stole the identity from the man who would become T-Ray. T-Ray claims the "real" Wade was a teacher, unlike the monstrous mercenary "Jack" who became Deadpool. This clashed with Deadpool's previous Weapon X origin written by the same writer.
A different writer in same series retconned the retcon with a ham-handed explanation that T-Ray was tricking Deadpool to mess with his head; the Weapon X story and the name Wade Wilson became his origin again. Most fans didn't even remember this mess until T-Ray's version was restated as false in Cable & Deadpool, written by Deadpool co-creator Fabian Nicieza.
While traveling backward in time in the 1973 Sise-Neg storyline, Doctor Strange paused in Ancient Egypt for a couple of panels to cast a spell that briefly changed the Thing back to human Ben Grimm, allowing him to escape from shackles designed for the Thing's massive wrists, escape, and begin the defeat of Rama-Tut by the Fantastic Four in FF #19. (In the original Lee/Kirby story, it was vaguely described as a result of the hot Egyptian sun).
A particularly controversial example was Steve Engelehart's retcon of The Falcon's origin in Captain America. When the Falcon first appeared, he was a kindly young social worker who became a superhero to help Cap fight off a group of exiled war criminals. Then Englehart came along and decided that before he put on a costume, the Falcon had actually been a violent, drug-dealing pimp who only became a hero because the Red Skull had brainwashed him in order to have a Mole in Cap's confidence. Enter Rick Remender, who retconned that retcon in All-New Captain America by revealing that Sam Wilson was always the social worker, but the Red Skull had put in the violent, drug-dealing pimp past in an attempt to discredit him, hoping that people would be racist enough to believe it.
Stan Lee, the original writer for Fantastic Four, initially couldn't decide whether or not the Human Torch kept his identity secret through Clark Kenting when giving him his own solo feature in Strange Tales. The retcon was a combination—he thought his identity was secret, and everyone else was humoring him.
Fantastic Four #357 reveals Alicia Masters was being impersonated by Lyja the Skrull since Fantastic Four #265.
In Generation X, the St. Croix sisters Claudette and Nicole are revealed to really be Monet St. Croix.
The character of Peter Quill aka Star-Lord has been subject to a number of different retcons in order to make his origin somewhat comprehensible in the wider Marvel Universe. The original Star-Lord stories took place 20 Minutes into the Future and possibly in an Alternate Universe, which was slightly reinforced in an Inhumans mini-series which established Star-Lord's father as part of the present day Marvel Universe, with the implication that Peter wasn't even born yet. This was thrown out the window during Annihilation, which tried to position Peter as part of the current Marvel Universe while keeping his original 70's origin. Finally, Brian Bendis just said "Screw it" and started over from scratch, establishing an entirely new (and more coherent) origin that contains bits of the various retcons, but firmly established Star-Lord as a present day Marvel character.
In The Illuminati, in-universe, the Illuminati were created after the Kree-Skrull war, of the 1970s. In the real world, they were introduced in the New Avengers, and their origin detailed before Civil War. In Jonathan Hickman's Avengers, Time Runs Out establishes the group's further activities.
Immortal Hulk has a few:
Quite a few regarding the first appearance of the Hulk. Firstly, Bruce's Resurrective Immortality was first activiated in the accident that turned him into the Hulk as he was originally actually killed in the gamma bomb explosion. Additionally, it undoes the Canon Discontinuity Peter David gave to the Devil Hulk by revealing he was real: he's actually the Immortal Hulk and thus, his actual true form resembles a traditional green Hulk. And that the Immortal/Devil Hulk is in fact the Hulk seen in Bruce's first few adventures.
Brian Banner, Bruce's father, is also shown to have feared the existence of offspring from him would break a spell instead of a fear of something wrong with his genetics, and he'd previously dealt with the Green Door.
The Hulk seen in Secret Empire is really a new personality.
Infinity and Inhumanity retcon parts of the prior Silent War mini-series, namely the bits about the Terrigen Mist being fatal to anyone without Inhuman lineage.
Iron Man
A minor one concerning the data books: When The All-New Iron Manual was released, the original Hulkbuster armor was classified as the "Model 14" armor, retconning it from being a modular piece of armor for the "Model 13" Modular Armor to its own set of armor. When the book was rereleased, the Hulkbuster was restored to being the modular piece of armor, which had the side effect of knocking down all armors after the Modular Armor down a model number.
Iron Man Vol 1 #267-268 originally retconned Iron Man's origin from him being in Southeast Asia to test a new weapon, to investigating problems at a new Stark Industries plant in the region, when he's injured by a mine and captured. It also tied his captor, the Communist Vietnamese warlord Wong-Chu, to the Mandarin.
Iron Man Vol 4 further changes Iron Man's origin as Stark fighting a group of Taliban terrorists in Afghanistan, instead of Stark travelling to Vietnam to rescue Ho Yinsen from Wong-Chu. Ho Yinsen dies in Afghanistan, instead of Vietnam, and his wife and son are later killed.
Iron Man Vol 5 reveals Tony Stark's long lost brother, Arno Stark, was born after Howard and Maria Stark agreed to allow their unborn child to undergo genetic modification from a Rigellian Recorder.
International Iron Man reveals Tony Stark's biological parents were two S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, Amanda Armstrong and Jude.
Iron Man: Legacy revealed that Tony Stark's first attempt at a startup company after Obadiah Stane bought out Stark Industries was not Circuits Maximus, but rather Imperio Techworks. He was forced to leave the company due to a conflict with the Pride.
Marvel: The Lost Generation is a twelve issue miniseries built entirely around retcon - specifically, filling in the blank in Marvel history from 1955 to 1961.
In Marvel Team-Up #74, the Silver Samurai acquired a teleportation ring from John Belushi, while other stories claim it was from Chris Farley.
The Marvel Comics Micronauts were inexplicably brought back to life in a 1996 issue of Cable. This was exactly ten years after they sacrificed themselves to create a Genesis effect that completely restored their ruined Homeworld into a new world at a natural state. In Cable, Homeworld is inhabited by Psycho-Man who is using Baron Karza's old body banks to create dog soldiers.
Commander Rann, Mari, and Bug are now the only Micronauts. For licensing reasons, they are now called The Microns; the others having died in war (Marvel no longer has the license to use Acroyear and most of the others. Huntarr's absence is baffling since he was created by Bill Mantlo, the writer of the first Micronauts series).
Homeworld is once again an overpopulated technometropolis and the Microns are freedom fighters. Homeworld is again under the iron fist of someone who probably has to remain unnamed due to licensing restrictions.
In a never released story (again due to licensing), Baron Karza and Thanos have a fight which merges all of the Microverses into one ,so now Sub-Atomica and Jarella's Homeword are now in the same dimension.
Rann and Mari's appearance and personality are different in every re-appearance. In Cable, Rann is buff and heroic looking while Mari's look screams butch lesbian. And she seemed to have given up the swords for normal futuristic weapons. Then Rann and Mari are looking like their old selves in Captain Marvel, although they don't do much more than talk (kind of like a typical episode of Star Trek TNG). In Realm of Kings: Son of Hulk Rann now sports a goatee and reading glasses. And unlike in Cable where Mari had about three lines between the two issues, she's back to her usual verbose self but now talks like an average Earth bimbo instead of a Homeworld Princess. And look at the man legs on her.
Bug is now a member of the Guardians of the Galaxy and for some reason, he's normal human sized and not about 3 inches which is normal when Microversians travel to the regular Earth universe. Rann and Mari (who is once again inexplicably letting others call her Marionette) have a robot sidekick named Carl (don't ask) and their latest enemy is Son of Hulk. They journey around the Microverse aboard the Endeavor III (which sports the most insanely stupidest ship design ever seen in print or screen: a giant atom). It looks as if someone really hated the deeper, more cerebral Micronauts: The New Voyages.
At least in the Marvel Universe this kind of things can be easily explained away thanks to their *infinite* number of alternate universes. It is entirely possible that the current Micros are just not the originals and that they're as confused as to whom they're dealing with as the heroes are.
As revealed in the late 1990's anthology comic Marvel Universe, minor 1940s Marvel speedsters Hurricane and Mercury were both Makkari of The Eternals under assumed names. And he was part of a pre-Fantastic Four super team called the Monster Hunters.
In New Excalibur, it is revealed there were eight Black Knights preceding Sir Percy. There was also a World War I Black Knight, and a swashbuckling Black Knight.
In Original Sin, it turns out the real Dum Dum Dugan has been dead since 1966, and all subsequent appearances have been an LMD. And Tony Stark may have inadvertently been involved in the Hulk's creation. The Dum Dum retcon was retconned in New Avengers (2015) as that the real Dum Dum was Only Mostly Dead and that the LMDs he used were being controlled by his mind.
When Patsy Walker became Hellcat, the series Patsy Walker became in-universe fiction written by Patsy's mother.
The Punisher
In Frank's earlier appearances in Spider-Man and Daredevil, Frank goes after people for jaywalking and littering. The Punisher 1986 miniseries retcons these stories as Frank being under the influence of mind-altering drugs.
Frank appears to put down his dog, Max, with a knife at the end of one issue. A later story and letters page claims Max survived, as Frank administered emergency medical procedures.
The origin of Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch have been retconned a number of times. Originally, they were said to be the children of World War II heroes Whizzer and Miss America, only to be revealed years later that, instead, they were the children of Magneto. Flash forward to AXIS and a spell launched by the inverted Witch to harm those in her bloodline, only to have Magneto mostly unharmed, thus making him not their father. AXIS also had a retcon towards Venom - Eddie Brock's Start of Darkness was caused by him taking and publishing a confession by Emil Gregg, who confessed to being the serial killer Sin Eater. However, Eddie was discredited when Spider-Man captured and unmasked the Sin Eater and revealed that he was a completely different person and that Emil was a pathological liar. Flash forward to AXIS: Carnage to reveal that Emil was indeed the Sin Eater and that his lying habit essentially gave him an out.
The Rampaging Hulk stories were intially far out stories featuring the Hulk. In Incredible Hulk #269-287, it is revealed the stories were created as techno-art movies by Bereet the Krylorian. Similarly, an unpublished story by Steve Gerber would have retconned the Howard the Duck stories not written by Gerber as art made by the Krylorian Chireep.
Invoked intentionally in Secret Invasion, revealing Spider-Woman in New Avengers was a double agent, Queen Veranke of the Skrull Empire.
The Sentry has been around since the 60's. Don't remember? That's the point.
Spider-Woman: Origin establishes Jessica Drew's powers come from being zapped while in her mother's womb by a laser containing the DNA of different species of spiders, instead of being caused by a spider-blood serum and genetic accelerator. Jessica's father Jonathan worked with HYDRA, Miles Warren and General Wyndham, instead of finding and funding research with uranium and working with Edgar Wyndham. Instead of the HYDRA agent Otto Vermis recruiting Jessica into HYDRA, Otto is retired and much older. Jessica is raised by Bova, appearing as a human, and Jessica learns martial arts from Taskmaster.
Truth: Red, White & Black establishes the super soldier serum was tested on black soldiers before being used on Steve Rogers, becoming a major point in the origin of Isaiah Bradley, Captain America, Josiah al hajj Saddiq, Justice, and Elijah Bradley, Patriot.
The fastest turnaround in retcon history may appear in Uncanny X-Men Annual #2. Serving as both a prequel and installment to Dark Reign, it does away with Namor being presented as a skeevy, smelly, creepy old man by turning the dialogue between him and Emma subtly flirtatious.
What If? #4, in an in-continuity story, reveals the creator of the Human Torch android, Phineas T. Horton, created a second android, Adam-II.
Wolverine
His claws originally appeared to be part of his glove, so the revelation that they were part of his body may or may not be considered a retcon. Later X-rays of his arms clearly showed that the claws were implants with mechanical housings and an extension/retraction mechanism. Later stories (as well as the cartoon) went with this and established that his claws are not affected by things that neutralize superpowers, even though his other powers are. When it was later "revealed" that his claws were a natural part of his skeletal system, the conflict with the earlier x-rays was never mentioned. (This includes his original entry in The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe.) Similarly, Wolverine's eternal rival Sabretooth first appeared in Iron Fist as a psychopathic human murderer who wore clawed gloves.
Wolverine: The Jungle Adventure implies Apocalypse was involved in the Weapon X program, and that Logan has a child in the Savage Land. This has not been addressed since.
Logan: Path of the Warlord is set during Logan's past in Jasmine Falls.
New X-Men revealed Weapon X was but one project of Weapon Plus, masterminded by John Sublime. The Super Soldier program that lead to the creation of Captain America, Project Rebirth, was also a project of Weapon Plus.
Wolverine: Origin establishes Wolverine's name is James Howlett, born in 19th Century Canada, from an affair by Elizabeth Howlett and Thomas Logan. Dog Logan is James' half-brother.
The backstory of Bucky Barnes as the Winter Soldier affected Logan's past by having the Winter Soldier introduce and kill Logan's love Itsu during a mission in Jasmine Falls during the 40's, establishing the backstory of Logan's son Daken. This would have lasting repercussions for Logan.
Wolverine volume 3 and 4, Wolverine: Origins, and Wolverine: Weapon X Files establish Romulus as the main villain who has been messing with Logan for most of his life, just as Wolverine's son, Daken, was retroactively introduced.
Wolverine's Expansion Pack Past has included Logan being part of D-Day during the Normandy invasion and the liberation of the Netherlands, a prisoner at one of the Nazi concentration camps who used Gaslighting against a series of the camp's directors until they were each Driven to Suicide, and being a prisoner in Nagasaki on the same day the atomic bomb was dropped.
Sabretooth Reborn reveals Romulus was lying about Logan's Lupine origin, M-Day didn't restore all of Logan's forgotten memories, and that Logan remembers he volunteered for the Project X/Weapon X program after defeating members of Department H.
Sabretooth & Mystique's relationship. In the 90's it was revealed she & Sabretooth met in Germany while she was impersonating a woman named Lien Zauber. They had an affair and conceived a child, Graydon Creed. Sabretooth had no idea Zauber was really Mystique & Mystique faked her death to leave Sabretooth. When we see them interact, it's shown clearly that they don't like one another. Sabretooth hits on her a few times, but he also hit Pyslocke, whom he gutted & almost killed. Along with hitting on Jean Grey, so that doesn't count for much. He's almost killed Mystique on 2 occasions, and she in turn has poisoned him, talked down to him, played mind-games on him, and shown to find him so repulsive that she threatens to hurt him should he touch her. Fast-Forward to 2010, they were made Marvel's New Villain Couple during Jason Aaron's X-run, and were oddly affectionate with each other. They shared passionate & tender kisses, and Mystique's pet-name for Sabretooth is "dearest." Rick Remender seems fond of the relationship & kept it going in anything he wrote for the X-franchise. He even went so far as to retcon their first meeting in Germany. During AXIS, Mystique mentions their first meeting as them almost killing each other before they ravaged each other. She then cups Creed's face affectionately, and he tenderly holds her hand while they look at one another lovingly. A HUGE change from their disgust with one another in the 90's.
X-Force
Samuel Guthrie, Cannonball, was revealed to be an immortal known as an External, and was recruited by Cable specifically to take down Apocalypse. After Selene defeated the Externals, she revealed Cannonball was not an External. In his own series, Cable went on to fight Apocalypse by himself, ignoring Cannonball's status as The Chosen One to take down Apocalypse.
Reignfire appeared in X-Force #26, and was intended to be Roberto da Costa from the future. But then it was explained that Reignfire was really the result of a scientist's experiment with a protoplasmic organism that used Roberto da Costa's genetic material as a template.
X-Force #46, #54, and #61 attempted to explain Shatterstar's true identity as another person named Benjamin Russell, but this plot point ended up as an Aborted Arc.
X-Force #102-105 reveals Pete Wisdom wears an eyepatch not because of an eye injury, but just to look cool.
X-Men
So that one team member wouldn't end up committing Genocide, Jean Grey was rewritten so that she was never Phoenix and she never died on The Moon. It was the Phoenix Force itself, who took on Jean's appearance and memories (Quasi-confirmed in a later issue of What If..? which showed what would have happened if "Jean" had had her powers stripped rather than committing suicide). Has been retconned several times since then, the latest version is that it was Jean on the Moon. How she ended up in Jamaica Bay a few years after that isn't accounted for. Plus becoming Phoenix in the first place was a retcon. Xavier basically went "Oh, she had this powerful other self in her the whole time, that I just sealed away."
From an X-Men fan-parody film on Magneto's retcon survival: "No, that was actually Xorn's twin brother possessed by the sentient mold Sublime, pretending to be me, pretending to be Xorn." As crazy as that sounds, the parody writer is not making that up.
Beast: That defies all logic!
"Hey guys, there was a secret team of X-Men that I, Professor Xavier, sent off to their deaths. I really didn't mention it before because I thought that it would have been far too depressing for you guys, and because I am the biggest bastard on the planet. Now go on out there and save that world that both hates and fears us!" (X-Men: Deadly Genesis seemed like it was designed for the sole purpose of smearing Professor Xavier's reputation.). For that matter, the writers have gotten a lot of mileage out of having Xavier do something shady in the past then wipe people's memory of it, even though this itself is a retcon of Xavier not believing in using his powers that way.
Psylocke's Race Lift from a Caucasian British woman to a Japanese assassin was originally explained by Claremont as being the result of magic and surgery performed on her by Spiral and Mojo. After the title changed writers to Fabian Nicieza, he had not been aware of Claremont's explanation and introduced the character Revanche, who was said to be inhabiting Betsy's original body. In his version of events, Spiral and Mojo performed a body-swap on the two women, although he'd later state that their DNA and appearances became intermingled due to imperfections made in the swap. An initial earlier explanation by Nicieza had also stated that Kwannon had accidentally swapped her mind with Betsy after encountering her body on a beach, but this was retconned as false memories due to the inconsistency with what was shown when Betsy originally emerged from the Siege Perilous. note 
In the late 90's, when Chris Claremont once more began writing for the X-Men, the character Sage was retconned to being one of Xavier's original students, placed as a spy in the Hellfire Club under Sebastian Shaw.
For a long time Rogue's stripe of white hair was explicitly dyed however it was later retconned to be natural.
After Age of Apocalypse, it was revealed Dark Beast and Gambit were retroactively responsible for the Mutant Massacre.
Onslaught reveals Xavier's attack on Magneto during Fatal Attractions created Onslaught, and that the X-traitor message, that motivated Bishop to travel to the past, was caused by Professor Xavier becoming Onslaught.
The Twelve revisits the The Twelve storyline introduced in X-Factor, but the list of twelve mutants has been changed from the original story.
X-Men: The Hidden Years adds stories to the original run, and includes cameos by The Lost Generation's First Line. Professor Xavier and the X-Men and X-Men: First Class also add in stories during the original series leading up to Giant-Size X-Men.
Adventures of the X-Men #12 reveals this particular 90's X-men inspired reality is the precursor to Earth-616. Because M'Kraan Crystal.
New X-Men reveals Charles Xavier had a sister, a Mummudrai spirit taking physical form that became stillborn, surviving to become Cassandra Nova. It's also established mutants can have a secondary mutation, such as Emma's diamond form.
Chuck Austen's run, including The Draco, establishes Nightcrawler and Angel are the descendants of the Neyaphem and Cheyarafim, with Azazel being Nightcrawler's father. Also, Angel's blood has the power to heal.
Uncanny X-Men #435 reveals the She-Hulk that slept with the Juggernaut was a tourist from Earth-721, known as Earth-A.
Magneto Testament establishes Magneto's real name as Max Eisenhardt, with Erik Lehnsherr being an alias.
In First X-Men, Logan helps Charles Xavier form the X-men, establishing the Astonishing X-Men era mansion. Logan's team consists of Sabretooth, and the newly introduced Bomb, Holo, Meteor, Scout, Shadowshift, and Yeti.
X-Men: Giant-Size reveals shortly after their first mission, the X-men encountered the Evolutionaries.
Jonathan Hickman's X-Men reveals Moira to be a mutant with the ability to resurrect into a past version of herself, and that eight versions have died previously.
The Young Allies series was established as a war-time comic filled with stereotypical depictions of the team, especially Whitewash Jones, whose real name is Washington Carver Jones, in Young Allies Comics 70th Anniversary Special #1.

Retcon / The Avengers
Avengers 1959 establishes there was a 1959 Avengers team lead by Nick Fury, consisting of Dominic Fortune, Kraven the Hunter, Namora, Sabretooth, Silver Sable, and Ulysses Bloodstone.
Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes (2005) adds behind the scenes details to the early The Avengers stories that did not exist then, such as Captain America visiting the Vietnam War Memorial, or showing villains dealing out more destruction than in the original stories, such as the Black Knight Nathan Garrett firing on civilians instead of just spraying Adhesive X.
The Crossing was reviled for many reasons, chief among them being it tried to state that Iron Man was really a Manchurian Agent for Kang the Conqueror since the Avengers first fought him (which heavily derailed Iron Man's character) and that the various mental issues Hank Pym suffered over the years were really an earlier attempt to turn him into one before Kang moved onto Tony. The Crossing was so reviled that many elements of Avengers Forever were itself a retcon towards it. It was revealed that the mastermind behind the story was actually Immortus disguised as Kang in an off-the-rails attempt to distract the Avengers from preparing for Onslaught, which was one part of a possible timeline where humanity conquers the stars. Tony Stark was never Brainwashed since the Avengers first fought Kang, but was being controlled by Immortus since Operation Galactic Storm. It was said to be brainwashed Fantastic Racism that went completely overboard and that Immortus lied through his teeth when he said he was the cause of Hank's issues. Various faces who turned evil throughout the story turned out to be Space Phantoms.
In Fantastic Four Annual #4, the Human Torch android was revived by the Mad Thinker to fight the Fantastic Four. In Avengers #133, Ultron reconstructed the Human Torch android to become the basis for the Vision. Avengers Forever reveals Immortus created and merged two timelines where both events happened. The Human Torch android body was still around, while the Vision still remained active as an Avenger. This allowed the Human Torch android and the Vision to both exist without causing a time paradox. The Human Torch android was revived later.
Avengers: The Origin gives a modern, broad strokes origin for the Avengers, replacing the Teen Brigade's ham radios with flatscreen computers.
In The Wedding of Hank Pym and Janet Van Dyne, originally, a supervillian named Yellowjacket appears claiming he killed Hank to the Avengers, namely Hawkeye. He turns around and kidnaps Janet and after a Slap-Slap-Kiss moment she announces her intentions to marry him. It is made clear that by the end of the story line that Janet figured out it was actually Hank having a mental break from chemicals and adopting a new persona to cope. She saw this as her chance at happiness, which she ranted about Hank ruining due to his focus on work◊. They've attempted to retcon this story twice. Once, by having everyone on the Avengers forced to play along in order to help Hank cope◊ during his mental break. The other time, Brian Michael Bendis made it so it was said to be an elaborate PR◊ stunt◊ with◊ everyone◊ of the Avengers in the know, and that it was to throw the media.
In Scott Lang's first appearance, his daughter Cassie suffered from a congenital heart defect. To save her life, Scott stole Hank Pym's Ant-Man equipment and Pym Particles, which he used to rescue Doctor Sondheim, the only doctor able to cure Cassie's condition, from Cross Technological Enterprises. Scott's wife, and Cassie's mother, never appeared or was mentioned, with it being implied that Scott was raising Cassie alone. In fact, when Scott was in prison, his sister Ruth Lang and her boyfriend Carl were the ones that took care of Cassie, and have since disappeared. Then in Avengers Vol 3 #62, Scott's ex-wife Peggy Rae appears when she obtains a court ruling limiting Scott's time with Cassie to supervised visits for one month. Despite the fact that before that issue, Cassie was under his custody with no problems.
Mighty Avengers vol 2 #12 establishes there was a Mighty Avengers team during the 1970's.

Retcon / Spider-Man
Infamously, The Clone Saga had to muck around with continuity so much (both because of its initial premise and because of the unholy mess it later became) that at one point they had to dedicate an entire special double-sized issue to retconning away a previous retcon.
Then, there's the Hobgoblin. The writer at the time he was first introduced,Roger Stern, set up this massive story about a replacement Goblin who was starting to meddle in the affairs of the Kingpin, among others. However, before Stern could reveal the identity, he left the title and the next writer said it was Ned Leeds, a go-to guy for wanna-be Goblins. Between the late 80s and the mid 90s, the role of the Hobgoblin fell to mercenary Jason Macendale, who was incredibly incompetent. Then, Stern returned for a three-issue mini-series devoted to finally clearing up the mystery of the Hobgoblin.
"The Final Chapter" reveals Aunt May, who died in The Amazing Spider-Man #400, was an actress hired by Norman Osborn.
Spider-Man: Chapter One would have introduced a modernized origin to replace the early issues of The Amazing Spider-Man, with the newer origin being included in The Amazing Spider-Man volume 2, but this decision was reversed after being met with fan outcry.
The stories "One More Day" and "Brand New Day" infamously altered twenty years worth of continuity by erasing Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson's marriage from continuity. This happened because Spider-Man saved his aunt's life by making a deal with Mephisto, a "demon" character typically used as the Marvel Universe stand-in for the Devil. Peter unmasking in public during Civil War didn't happen as depicted; instead, the event was erased from people's memories or they could not remember who was behind the mask.
One Moment in Time reveals Mary Jane agreed with making the deal with Mephisto in One More Day. The events of The Wedding! are rewritten so that a red bird, implied to be Mephisto, causes a fat man to fall on Peter and ruin the wedding, altering events up to the present day.
Black Cat was originally just a laidback adventuress, then Kevin Smith decided to retcon that she was a victim of rape and that her early adventures was a misplaced reaction to it. She was also arrested before and had her identity made public—yet her current Face–Heel Turn is based on Otto Octavius capturing her and her arrest making her identity public.
Untold Tales of Spider-Man adds in stories taking place during the time of the original stories.
Trouble attempted to redo the origin of Spider-Man by centering around a contemporary group of friends, Ben, May, Mary and Richard, with May having an affair with Richard, implying Peter was born to Aunt May. This has since been considered discontinuity.
Sins Past and Sins Remembered establishes Norman Osborn and Gwen Stacy had a son and daughter, Gabriel Stacy and Sarah Stacy.
In Amazing Spider-Man vol 3 #1, it is revealed the same spider that bit Peter also bit Cindy Moon on her ankle, and she eventually became known as Silk. Tangled Web of Spider-Man #1-3 establishes Carl King, a bully, studied and ate the spider, and became The Thousand.
In Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy, The Night Gwen Stacy Died is changed to reveal that, before the Goblin knocked her over, Gwen Stacy had woken up and heard Spidey call himself "Peter". She automatically hates both because of what happened to her father. In issue 4, however, when Peter finally confronts Gwen (or better, another clone with her last memoirs), she does say that she forgives him and, in a tie-in, she admits that she's still in love with Peter, but she feels betrayed by him being Spider-Man, though she understands why he does what he does.

Retcon / Literature
Arthur C. Clarke's 2001: A Space Odyssey:
It directs the fateful mission to Saturn, but The Film of the Book goes to Jupiter (according to The Other Wiki, because the special effects team couldn't make a satisfactory ring effect for Saturn). When Clarke wrote 2010, he decided that Jupiter worked better for the new plot and went with it.
3001: The Final Odyssey retconned the events of the first 3 books to occur at a later date. 2001 was changed to 2015, with 2010 and 2061 getting a respective forward push, as well. It was written in 1996, by which time it was pretty clear that Clarke's 2001 would not happen. Word of God is that each book takes place in a slightly alternate continuity from the others. Which explains Dave/Star Child's Badass Decay between 2010 and 2061, and Floyd not appearing as part of the Dave/HAL/Monolith entity at all in 3001.
In the third Alex Rider book, Skeleton Key, there is a villain called Conrad who is stated to have been blown up by a bomb whilst they were carrying it, and surgically put back together again. Author Anthony Horowitz appears to have later decided this was too extreme to be credible, as a later book mentions Conrad but changes it to a bomb in the boot of his car detonating whilst he was driving it to an army base he was planning to plant it in.
In Animorphs:
Ax is at the beginning unable to communicate in thought-speak while in human form, explained by the fact that humans cannot use thought-speak. Later in the series, Ax repeatedly uses thought-speak while in human morph, because it is, after all, a morph.
In the first book, Jake can communicate in thought-speech with Tobias when he's in a morph and Jake isn't, which would have come in really handy for the characters later. K.A. Applegate intended to take that scene out, but forgot. An in-universe explanation popular in some fanon circles is that humans possess a vestigial capacity for thought speak similar in function to the Andalite sense of taste. Neither Human nor Andalite scientists ever noticed it and the Yeerks weren't interested, but it helps explain why humans innovate so quickly. Under this explanation, the above example worked the way it did for three reasons: Jake has a strong personality and is unusually able to 'project' his thoughts, Tobias has a sensitive personality and is unusually able to 'hear' thoughts, and both of them expected it to work - but since it didn't work for anyone else, they both later thought they were imagining it.
In Arrivals from the Dark books, there's plenty of discontinuity between the primary series and the Trevelyan's Mission spin-off series that takes place half a millennium later. There's also some discontinuity between the books of the primary series, such as the existence of annihilator-armed ships in the Haptor Space Navy (a plot point in book #3). Later on, though, in a book that takes place after a human-Haptor war, it's stated that Haptors have never actually developed Anti Matter technology to arm their ships with annihilators, which is the main reason why humanity beat them so soundly. There are other details, such as the claim that kinetic and missile weapons have been phased out on Earth after the development of Deflector Shields, which make any such weapons useless (indeed, dangerous to the shooters, as they can reflect the shots back at them). Then, later on, it's revealed that, yes, missiles are indeed still in use aboard ships.
The Baby-Sitters Club:
Early on, Jill, a member of the We ♥ Kids Club, is established as serious and thoughtful; at one point, Dawn describes her as being like Mary Anne. In the first California Diaries book she is portrayed as very childish, which contributes to Dawn, Maggie and Sunny drifting away from her.
The Brewer children's mother and stepfather are named as Sheila and Kendall in an early book, later retconned to Lisa and Seth when they feature more prominently in later titles.
Similarly, Mary Anne's late mother was named Abigail in the fourth book, but later books identify her as Alma. This is also fixed in reprints.
There was a short spinoff series where each of the girls writes an autobiography. They must have been written by different writers, because Kristy, Mary Anne, and Claudia have conflicting memories of their elementary school years (when they all knew each other).
In the early books, Dawn is a semi-vegetarian who eats chicken and fish; she avoids red meat because she thinks it's unhealthy and doesn't like the taste. She specifically says in one book that her vegetarianism DOESN'T have anything to do with feeling sorry for cows, and in fact she doesn't even like animals all that much. This is somewhat hard to reconcile with the radical environmentalist she is in the later books.
The prequels to The Belgariad and Mallorean books do this to several different plot points. The most egregious example is that taking into account Silk's cameo towards the end of Belgarath the Sorcerer, when he and Garion encounter Asharak in Pawn of Prophecy, Silk should have recognised Asharak on sight, should have known that "Asharak" was one of Chamdar's aliases, and should hence have realised that the fact that Asharak was poking around was highly significant and should be reported to Belgarath immediately. It's handwaved with the implication that Asharak was tampering with his mind, but that still doesn't explain why Belgarath didn't react to the name.
In BIONICLE Chronicles #1: Tale of the Toa, the Toa defeat their shadow clones by taking on each others' duplicates and using their own individual tactics. The 2005 Encyclopedia later explained that the Toa actually defeated their own doubles by absorbing them and accepting that darkness is a part of their being. Other parts of the novel were later reinterpreted as well, in part to make up for the absence of the climactic showdown with the Big Bad — in the book, the shadow doubles are the final foes, not merely the lead-up to the Makuta.
An in-universe example: in The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian, the "history" under Miraz's rule is described as "more dull than the driest history book you have ever read, and less true than the most exciting adventure story."
Since the Cthulhu Mythos has had so many authors over so many years, lots of stuff gets retconned back and forth. Particularly notable is August Derleth's oft-reviled attempt to impose Elemental Rock–Paper–Scissors and a good/evil dichotomy on Cosmic Horror and fans revising the wings of Elder Things and Mi-Go (which were originally said to allow them to fly through space) to solar sails.
Discworld:
The series, by virtue of being a Long Runner, has a few discrepancies (including when the books actually take place) between the earlier books (such as Wyrd Sisters) and the later ones. Then Terry Pratchett went and justified it all in Thief of Time by explaining that the History Monks just take any time they need and dump any leftover time they have into the ocean. Then there's also the matter of alternate histories.
In a bizarrely creepy in-universe example, this is actually how the Auditors of Reality COMMUNICATE. They don't talk; they just subtly change the past so that they HAD talked.
A key example from the Discworld novels is the way the key scene in Mort where Mort and DEATH fight a duel is revisited in Soul Music to incorporate the unseen presence of Susan Sto Helit (stepping back to a past before she was born, in order to discover why DEATH spared her father's life).
The Discworld maps have had to be ret-conned in later editions to accommodate things which were presumably there all along but which had simply not been conceived in those novels, prior to the release of the first city map. This is all oddly recursive. Similarly, the Discworld Map had to be revised to incorporate whole new countries not there in the books at the time, or to reshape older named countries whose backstories changed and evolved.
Don Quixote. Part 2, which was written a decade after the publication of Part 1, is predicated on the idea that Part 1 was published as non-fiction in his world. This gives the author an opportunity to address contradictions in the original work, by having a character who had read it ask Quixote himself for explanations of what really happened. There was a unlicensed second part "Second Volume of the Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha: by the Licenciado (doctorate) Alonso Fernández de Avellaneda, of Tordesillas" written that directly insulted Cervantes. It ended up serving as the impetus for Cervantes' Part 2, and there are many jabs, both direct and indirect, at this spurious sequel, in Cervantes' own sequel.
Dragonlance:
The War of Souls trilogy retcons the role of Chaos, "Father of the Gods" to "delusional god who thinks he's father of the gods." It also retcons out the ending of Dragons of Summer Flame. Not only does Tasslehoff not die, but Takhsis steals the entire world, somehow pretending to be Fizban while departing with Raistlin. This couldn't have happened, because Raistlin somehow ends back with the gods, a major plot point in Dragons of a Vanished Moon.
Officially, there's another Chaos retcon. He's an Eldritch Abomination equal and opposite to the Highgod; while not the ultimate creator, the universe was, in a sense, created from him, and he is as far above the gods as they are above mortals.
Another retcon is the conception of Steel Brightblade, which no character knew about until The Second Generation.
There are a number of inconsistencies between Ender's Game, the sequels, the sidequel, the sidequel's sequels, and the prequels. A large part of it has to do with technology and how it works. For example, in the original novel, the previous Bugger/Formic invasions were fought with "primitive" weapons like missiles, with the MD Device (AKA the Little Doctor) only being developed in anticipation of the Third Invasion. Additionally, a number of technologies are stated to have been reverse-engineered from the Formics, including Artificial Gravity and Faster-Than-Light Travel. While this latter fact is not contradicted by the sequels, the nature of FTL travel changes dramatically over the next several books, from a barely-understood "Park shift" that seems to instantaneously accelerate a ship to relativistic speeds to a drive that takes a long time to achieve the same (that's right, technology seems to get worse over the millennia for no reason other than to provide a reason for an admiral to do something questionable). The prequels (set during First Contact) forget all that and make humans more advanced than stated in the original novel, with Artificial Gravity already being a thing on Earth (in fact, the Formics are stated that they've never had it), and the Formics less advanced (yes, they're advanced enough to curb-stomp the unprepared humanity, but it's implied that they only dominate the Second Invasion mostly through numbers and the fact that humans haven't had time to build enough warships). The prequels retcon the Formic interstellar drive to a Ram Scoop. It was also originally implied that the Formics nuked China during the First Invasion from orbit, when one of their scout ships broke through the blockade. In fact, humanity didn't even have a defense fleet at this point, according to the prequels, and it was Asteroid Miners fighting the ship. The single mothership entered Earth's orbit and send down landers. No nukes were used, since the Formics were more interested in terraforming the planet and eliminating pests (i.e. humans) with poison. To Orson Scott Card's credit, the audio opera Ender's Game Alive incorporates these retcons and adds several other nuances (such as Formic queens not always being in direct control over all Formics) that weren't present before. The second set of spin-off novels also seems to retcon the state of the International Fleet after the end of the Third Invasion. The original novel implies that the IF was disbanded, largely due to the various nation-states remembering old grievances and ending their alliance. The Fleet School series claims that IF still exists but has taken steps to stay away from Earth-bound politics, seeking to ensure humanity's survival in case of another alien threat (or the possibility that not all Formic queens were killed; to be fair, that was a stupid assumption in the original book).
GONE:
The first book of the series has Michael Grant (author) toy with giving Astrid a power, in which she is stated to be a quasi-powerful freak with the power to tell if someone is "special" or "Important". As of the third book however, Astrid is explicitely stated to have No powers and her mutation is never mentioned again.
Michael Grant has stated in three interviews that he regrets putting Astrid's power in as A) he didn't think her power was interesting, useful or original and B) he wanted some of the main characters not to have powers to break the status quo a little.
Fans are still debating whether he was right to cut the mutation out however, with some fans arguing that her power didn't add much to the plot and that Astrid is already described as being beautiful and a genius. Other members of the fandom however argue that it's unrealistic (due to genetics and such) for her brother to be the most powerful freak in the series and for her not to have a power at all. They also think her power should have been kept in to avoid plot holes, and well, a retcon.
In the Guardians of Ga'Hoole series, different books have drastically incompatible images of Ifghar. In the Guidebook, he's a victim of bullies who was briefly attracted to Lil but grew out of it and wished her happiness in her new relationship. In the other books, he's a bullying Yandere who tried to rape her.
From the Harry Potter series:
In Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Dumbledore flies to London for a supposed meeting, then flies back, arriving just in time to save Harry from Quirrellmort. We were probably supposed to believe that he was on broomstick. But later books introduce the ideas that wizards have instantaneous methods of travel: Floo Powder, Apparition, etc. Book 5 tells us Dumbledore went on a flying horse (Thestral) because he wanted to arrive late because the Ministry (who were supposed to have called the meeting) were annoying him. But couldn't he have just taken Floo Powder at a later time?
In the first book Rowling had Voldemort tell Harry that his father "put up a courageous fight" before he died, and there was no reason for him to lie to Harry at this point (although it's not inconceivable that he was exaggerating). Seven books on, James Potter is killed in flashback without raising so much as a finger against Voldemort, though James did try to hold him off, but was killed quickly, having forgotten his wand.
In an otherwise throwaway line in Quidditch Through the Ages, powerful wizards are said to be able to Apparate across continents. Come Deathly Hallows, however, this is quietly retconned; Apparition is now said to have a range of effectiveness less than that of Western Europe, and even Voldemort is forced to fly "within range" of a certain location before he can Apparate.
In all the books prior to the the fourth, the only immobilizing spells are Petrificus Totalus and a spell to summon chains, the former being temporary and the latter allowing an Animagus to escape. Goblet of Fire introduces the Stunning Spell, which paralyzes the user perpetually until the caster dies or the victim receives the counter-curse. While the kids couldn't have known the spell in the prior books, in some of the cases they were around adults who should've known the Stunning Spell and made a lot of situations easier.
After Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban introduced the Time Turner, the most common question by readers was why a time machine was being used for student electives instead of averting past catastrophes. Eventually, Rowling put out an explanation that Time Turners couldn't go back more than five hours, as well as destroying all the Time Turners in the fifth book, admitting on Pottermore that time travel as a plot device caused her too many story problems.
The first three books state that Gryffindor last won the Quidditch Cup many years ago when Charlie Weasley was captain. This implies that Charlie had left Hogwarts a year before Percy even arrived. JK Rowling later stated that Charlie would've only graduated the year before Harry and Ron began their education. This makes little sense as it is implied that the last win was when Charlie was captain.
No two versions of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (radio series, books, TV series, movie, etc.) are exactly the same. And contrary to many fans misconceptions, the books are a retcon of the original radio series. Douglas Adams stated that this was intentional and there is no one canonical version of the story.
Honor Harrington:
Later books (and short stories, although they are set earlier in the timeline) reveal that Honor is the result of genetic modification that gives her enhanced physical abilities and an increased metabolism. It raises issues about incidents in the early books she's described as accomplishing because of practice, training, and being raised on a higher-gravity world, instead of being inherently stronger and faster.
In the first book, when the story of Pavel Young's attempted rape and its aftermath is mentioned, the resulting stomping of said aforementioned rapist-wannabe is given as due to her martial arts training and world of origin. In Field of Dishonor, the winning of the duel is implied to be due to her rage and relentless practice. It's only well into later books that it's revealed she had a tad more of an edge than just the learned skills.
Also, David Weber had to retcon the length of ships versus their weight, as he'd initially neglected the Square-Cube law, leaving the smallest warships about right but the biggest ones "not quite as dense as cigar smoke."
How prolong treatment works changed from when it was first mentioned in the second book of the series, The Honor of the Queen. It's explicitly noted that third generation prolong extends all stages of human lifespan, and a Grayson officer (Grayson not having that biotech at the time) is disturbed at visiting a Manticoran ship for the first time and seeing that the ship looks like it's being operated by children, as most of the younger personnel, chronologically in their 20s or early 30s in standard years, look like young teenagers, at most. Later in the series it's also mentioned that consensual sex on naval ships in the Manticoran navy is accepted (within reason). At some point, it was realized what the combination of those two facts unintentionally implied, plus the absurdity of combat troops like Marines being that physically immature. Later works in the series make a point to mention an additional treatment prolong recipients receive that neutralizes the effect until one has reached physical maturity, thus aging at a normal rate so a 20-year-old looks like a 20-year-old and not 12.
Len Deighton's Hook Line & Sinker trilogy retconned the events of his earlier Game, Set & Match trilogy. In the latter trilogy, Bernie Samson discovered that his wife was a deep cover agent for the Russians. The former trilogy changed this so that his wife was actually working as a deep cover agent for the British with her defection as a bluff.
In the Jurassic Park novel, Ian Malcolm is very definitely dead. They're even trying to get through diplomatic red tape to get him buried. By the time of The Lost World, Malcolm is alive and well, having only been... mostly dead.
Land of Oz: The Wizard was retconned within the first three books due to complaints. In the second book The Marvelous Land of Oz, it's mentioned that the Wizard stole Oz's rightful heir and gave her to an abusive witch to raise so that he could take the throne. The very next book, Ozma of Oz, changed it so that he wasn't involved in Ozma's kidnapping and didn't take the throne by force. He's shown to have never met Ozma before.
A Lion In The Meadow: Initially, the story just ended abruptly with the boy and the lion making friends, but the author later wrote a revised ending that involved the lion being adopted by the family. He also gains a younger sibling and a cat in the revised version.
The Malazan Book of the Fallen underwent significant changes in its backstory between when Gardens of the Moon was completed and the initial publication of the Malazan series almost a decade later. Especially where Steven Erikson dealt with matters relating to the Fall of the Emperor, his rise as Shadowthrone, Dancer and his rise as Shadowthrone's sidekick Cotillion, the Patron God of Assassins, and their desire for revenge on Laseen for usurping the throne of the Malazan Empire. As a result, fans of the series have a term for retcons relating to backstory discrepancies between Gardens of the Moon (short GotM) and the rest of the Malazan series: GotMism.
In Stephen King's Misery, psychotic nurse Annie Wilkes forces Paul Sheldon to retcon the death of Misery Chastain in his series of romance novels. His first attempt is to simply Rewrite it, but he is forced to do a Revision in which Misery was buried alive in a coma when Annie considers the rewrite to be cheating.
In-verse example: Nineteen Eighty Four is hugely based off this trope. Big Brother can rewrite history at will, and the masses have to eat it up. Retconning is done at the Ministry of Truth, the protagonist's main place of work, and mainly consists of editing out people who fell from Big Brother's favor and were "vaporized".
In The Odyssey, there are two sirens. Yet there is art that depicts three. How to fix, how to fix — obviously, one of them committed suicide in a rage after Jason and the Argonauts! And another one after Odysseus got away! (Which raises the question of how the third one died... they never did settle that.) Older Than Feudalism.
Old Kingdom series:
The waterfall that separates the first and second precincts of Death is described as "getting louder" when an entity passes through it from the second to the first precinct in Sabriel, but that is retconned in Lirael where an entity passing through causes the waterfall to go silent, and thus agreeing more with the idea that a pathway must be made through the waterfall by magic.
A very confusing retcon occurs in regards to "Gore crows", bodies of dead birds reanimated with a single spirit. They are at first described as extremely dangerous due to many of the birds being able to overwhelm an individual, but later when Prince Sam kills one with his slingshot, the Disreputable Dog claims that the other gore crow, which took turns spying on the main party, would be killed because they are both linked to the same spirit. But if this were true, then the first description would not make sense, as soon as the individual was able to kill one of the crows, the rest would perish.
A few in Sandokan. It's mainly with the dates, that in the first novels are changed to fit the historical events Salgari is mentioning (novels following The Two Tigers, whose finale is set in late september-early october 1857, respect real world history), but Sambigliong was switched from Dayak (The Pirates of Malaysia and The Two Tigers) to Malayan (from The King of the Sea onward), and in The Tigers of Mompracem Sandokan was not the dispossessed son of the murdered rajah Kaidagan (first mentioned in Sandokan Fights Back, when Sandokan finally kills his murderer) but the dispossessed rajah of Lake Kini Balù.
The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel: In book 1, The Alchemyst, Scatty talks about fighting with Joan of Arc — and is described as sadly telling her not to go to Paris, implying she's regretful of Joan's death. The very next book reveals that Joan is alive and well (and immortal to boot) and that it was Scatty who saved her from her execution — making the aforementioned line rather weird. In a series that is otherwise very good with its continuity.
A Series of Unfortunate Events: So heavy that a number of companion books had to be written to fully explain them; these were themselves retconned. Handler originally thought the series would only last a few books, not the intended 13, and hence the first four books were essentially unconnected; V.F.D. was created as an ongoing plotline when it became clear the series could run 13 books, and details from the first four books were retconned to be part of the V.F.D. backstory to bring the entire series together.
In the Sherlock Holmes stories, Arthur Conan Doyle originally intended Holmes to die in "The Final Problem" (as the name kinda implies), but the Holmes fans were so furious (there's a story that an old lady screamed "murderer" at him on the street) that in the end Conan Doyle had to Ret Con his hero back to life in "The Adventure of the Empty House". Opinion pretty divided on whether this is a good thing or not: there are some very good Holmes stories after he comes back, but overall the quality does go down, due to Conan Doyle not really caring any more.
Several in the Star Trek Novel Verse. A particularly good example: in Star Trek: Vulcan's Heart, Romulus' capital was given the name Ki Baratan. It had previously been called Dartha, but that was in a story set a century prior. Later novels used the time gap for a reasonable Retcon: the capital's name changes as new regimes come to power. Now, books set in the 22nd or 23rd centuries use "Dartha", those set in the 24th use "Ki Baratan". The name change is explicitly mentioned in the first Star Trek: Titan novel. Another good example is the Andorian issue. The Andorians were initially portrayed somewhat differently between Star Trek: Enterprise and the Star Trek: Deep Space Nine Relaunch novels, but later books skillfully resolved the seeming contradictions. The various portrayals now add up neatly. Also, in the Star Trek: Enterprise Relaunch, the names of Xindi characters are a blend of screen names and those given in early novelizations. For example, the Xindi known as Dolim was named "Guruk" in the first novelization, so in later books his full name is given as "Guruk Dolim".
In the Star Trek Shatnerverse novel The Return, V'ger is established as a prototype or inspiration for the Borg Collective. In other novels, this origin seems to be ignored.
In Star Wars Legends, the prophecy in The Glove of Darth Vader was retconned to be about Darth Millenial, the titular glove became a Mandalorian crushgaunt, and the Prophets of the Dark Side were revelaed to be false prophets.
The Sword of Truth series: Presumably to explain the inconsistencies in the timeline generated by the official version of the Magic of Orden, the final book reveals that the Book of Counted Shadows, supposedly the instruction manual to safely use the power of Orden, is a fake. So far, so neat and tidy, until you remember that the climax of the first book and a large chunk of the plot of the second book (and, indirectly, most of the rest of the series) rest on Richard awakening his Gift by using it to kill his father - by tricking him into opening the wrong box - which doesn't apply if there never was a right box, meaning Richard's Gift should not have awakened. Not that the logic was entirely convincing to begin with...
Played for Laughs in To Be or Not To Be: That Is the Adventure, where if you choose the crazy options when interacting with Ophelia early on, the narrator gets annoyed and retcons an earlier scene to have Hamlet tell Horatio that he's going to act crazy for a little while in an attempt to find a justification for your actions.
Tolkien's Legendarium:
The Hobbit was written well before J. R. R. Tolkien came up with the plot for The Lord of the Rings. In the original story, Gollum's wager for the Riddle Game was a "present", which turned out to be the ring. Once The Lord of the Rings existed, having Gollum ever do anything which might lead to him losing the Ring on purpose suddenly made no sense at all, and so that chapter had to be Ret Conned. Tolkien dealt with it by writing a revised edition and during The Lord of the Rings later making Bilbo an Unreliable Narrator and having Gandalf shake the "true" story out of him.
Mention of "cheese and tomatoes" is changed to "cheese and pickles" in later editions because tomatoes were from the Americas, and wouldn't exist in Middle-Earth. Note 'tobacco' is referred to as 'pipeweed' or 'baccy' and potatoes are called 'taters'.
The character of Elrond is also slightly different from one book to the other: when Tolkien wrote The Hobbit, he gave him the name of Elrond, which he had previously used in drafts of The Silmarillion for the son of Eärendil, but did not make him the same character, which is why it isn't clear in The Hobbit whether Elrond is actually counted among Elves - he appears to be a Man. It was only when writing The Lord of the Rings that Tolkien explicitly made the character that appeared in The Hobbit, and the character that appeared in The Silmarillion, one and the same.
Though Tolkien had been working on the myths of Middle-earth for a long time, The Hobbit was not originally set there when it was written, so the earliest editions contain things that were later eliminated, like references to policemen.
If you're interested in studying Tolkien's languages, the many changes and revisions in the linguistic history across Tolkien's life can be a nightmare. Many of these changes are "internal" (not in texts intended for publication, so not proper retcons), but a lot aren't. In fact, most "corrections" to the second edition of LOTR were linguistic in nature. Other changes involved names that weren't updated as the languages changed: the name Fëanor initially was pure Sindarinnote  for "spirit of fire"; but decades after, the pure Sindarin form would have been Faenor, and the name had to be explained as a mix of Quenya and Sindarin.
The Vampire Chronicles: The Lestat that appears in Interview With the Vampire is a rather stupid, petty villain with a streak in banal evil. Anne Rice wrote in her later books that this portrayal was merely Louis' spiteful gossip and/or misunderstandings. If The Vampire Lestat is read before Interview With the Vampire, the impression that Louis is giving the account as a bitter ex-love becomes pretty unmistakable.
As Warrior Cats expanded, more retcons were made:
A plot point in one of the prequel novellas is Spottedleaf wanting to be a warrior. In the main novels (written several years beforehand) she is nothing but enthusiastic about her job as a medicine cat, her entry in the official guide never mentions such aspirations, and her personality is distinctly pacifist.
The Dark Forest always existed, and was always entering cats' dreams; it's just that nobody (not even inhabitants of the Forest's heavenly analogue, which is mentioned constantly in all the books) ever mentioned it until series 4. Even though it leaves actual physical wounds on the bodies of cats who fight in it.
SkyClan belong in the canyon, in part because it's close to the Twolegplace many SkyClan members still have ties to. Except they don't, and someone has to bring them to the lake once ShadowClan's fall conveniently leaves an empty space.
The series originally took place in Britain and the original forest was based on an actual forest. Since the second arc, more and more animals that shouldn't be there have popped up. The series currently takes place in an undefined country.
Leafpool has a prophetic vision in which she sees that Squirrelflight and Brambleclaw will be together until their deaths. But a series later, he breaks up with her because she lied about being their kits' mother.
The Xanth series began addressing early-book continuity issues by saying the magic-dust madness area was spreading and screwing with reality.

Retcon / Live-Action TV
The most painful, quickest retcon ever was in The 4400. One episode revolves around re-opening the 4400 center. Notably, police try to stop it and tell Shawn he can't heal anyone, because no one can use 4400 abilities, whether they were a 4400 or got it via promicin injection. The very next episode features someone saying "Maia is a 4400, she can legally use her ability". The show then kept on like that without even acknowledging that superhuman abilities were entirely banned in the first few episodes of its last season.
Alias: "Hey you know the man you loved that died and you grieved over? Yeah, know he's alive remember, and we totally knew about it all the time, even though you cried lots in private over his loss." Explainable in-universe, however, since the enemy is dangerous enough to be able to successfully bug even the private homes of the characters for long periods of time before being uncovered. Having experienced that in the past, it would be sensible for that kind of charade to continue in private just to be on the safe side.
Angel had one about halfway through season four when the gang find out that Big Bad Jasmine had engineered most of the major events that brought the gang together.
In-universe, Angel had the gang's memories retconned to edit out Connor and allow him a normal life. Eventually, the reality alteration does get exposed, however.
There's a big plot point in Season Two when Angel is contemplating turning Darla back into a vampire, explaining that he's never done that before with a soul and that may make a difference. Three seasons later, a flashback episode has him turning someone into a vampire while Angel has a soul: It didn't end well, and would thus be very strange for Angel to consider.
The Arrowverse initially started with the idea of superheroes being a new thing, superpowers didn't exist, and it was a mundane world (albeit with character with badass combat skills). Then it was revealed that no, there was superscience in the form of the mirakuru serum, which Oliver had known about. Then the particle explosion in Central City caused exposed people to have superpowers. Then it was revealed there was real magic (which Oliver had known about), superpowers that had nothing to do with the Central City explosion, and a lot of superscience, and aliens, and the government had been aware of this to the point of having their own superhero team during World War 2.
Within Arrow itself, Diggle originally had an It's Personal with Deadshot because Deadshot had killed Diggle's brother, which they knew because Deadshot uses a trademark kind of ammunition coated in curare poison. A few seasons later, when they decided to bring Diggle's brother into the show, it turns out that his death was faked by H.I.V.E., who had provided Deadshot with special ammunition that would allow him to be revived. So Deadshot (unaware of the whole death-faking situation) still shot him, while explicitly not using his signature ammunition, but actually did shoot him with his signature ammunition so that the authorities would know he was the shooter.
Better Call Saul, which is a prequel and spinoff to Breaking Bad, has some minor cases of this.
One of the most noticeable is with the age of Mike's granddaughter. Arguably though, this is pretty justified owing to the need for a kid old enough to form sentences that Mike can have interactions with.
In Breaking Bad, Tyrus Kitt was introduced in season 4 as the person hired by Gus to monitor Walt following Victor's death. He's implied to be a new hire that Gus had brought on-board to replace Victor. Better Call Saul, on the other hand, establishes that Victor and Tyrus actually worked together back in the day before Walt was ever brought on, and were Gus's most trusted muscle. Which would certainly explain why Tyrus is so chilly and distant to Walt and Jesse during Breaking Bad: that's not his personality, he's angry at them for what happened to Victor.
Mike only worked with Gus for about seven or eight years, not 15+ as Breaking Bad might lead you to think.
While retaining Saul's law school alma mater of the University of American Samoa from Breaking Bad, a closer look at the degree on Saul's wall in that series reveals he graduated in May 1984, while a good chunk of the plot of Better Call Saul hinges on his only recently having become a lawyer.
Several in Battlestar Galactica (2003):
In the initial mini-series and first few episodes, humanoid Cylons are shown to have glowing spines during intercourse. However, this was officially retconned by producers when it was pointed out that Dr. Baltar already had an amazing Cylon detector. In his pants. Though note Scifi Channel commercials for the second half of season 2, which show a spinally-luminated fetus. Also, in the commentary for later webisodes, writer Jane Espenson mentions it was planned to depict Eight's spine glowing during sex with Gaeta but the scene was rewritten for them to kiss instead. The novelization of the Miniseries says the glow isn't visible to the naked eye, but that book isn't Canon.
In early episodes we learn that human Cylons had 'evolved' from the Centurions after the First Cylon War. Later there are a few hints that human models already existed before the war. Then, in the last ten episodes, it is revealed that the ancients on Kobol first created artificial 'humans' thousands of years ago, and descendants of these same artificial humans had worked with the Centurions to create the new human models.
Several characters are revealed to be Cylons and thus, alive after they and the audience thought for years they were human and/or dead. Stand up Anders, Tyrol, Tigh, Tory and Ellen!
In the miniseries, the audience learns that there are only twelve Cylon models that look like humans. These are gradually revealed over the series, the twelfth and final Cylon in "Sometimes A Great Notion" then, four episodes later we learn of the (former) existence of a lost thirteenth model, whom we never see.
This one is especially bad because when it was first revealed, many fans took it as an explanation for what the hell Starbuck was after being apparently resurrected despite her dead body still being on Earth. Ron Moore was quick to deny this, as it was just thrown in as an explanation for why the number designations for the humanoid Cylons skipped number 7.
The Brady Bunch: Events and characters that occurred in the Brady Spin-Off The Brady Bunch Variety Hour are retconned by the time The Brady Brides make it to air; as such, none of the events in the ill-fated variety series are considered canon.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer:
The show plays with and subverts this trope in a very interesting way within the show. In the end of the first episode of season 5, Buffy suddenly has a sister that has never appeared or been mentioned before, and it had previously been established that Buffy is an only child. But neither Buffy nor anyone else shows any signs that anything is out of the ordinary. It later turns out that powerful magic was involved that not only created Dawn, but also retconned her entire past life into the memories of the people of Sunnydale. Even when it turns out she didn't really exist until some months ago, she continues with her current life as if she were a regular person.
In season 1, Giles states that he is inexperienced with magic and has never used it before. By season 2 it has been established that while he was in college he was using magic recklessly enough to gain the nickname "Ripper" and to summon a dangerous demon that killed several other people.
Also with Spike's introduction. He expresses anger that Angel has gone good, saying, "You were my sire, my Yoda, man!" Angel doesn't elaborate on this at the time. Later it's seen that it was Drusilla who actually turned Spike into a vampire while Angelus was his teacher and role model. In another episode Spike outright says, "Drusilla may have made me a vampire, but you made me a monster." Joss Whedon also gave the explanation at one point that 'sire' can refer to any of the predecessors of a vampire's line and not just immediate sire.
Spike saying that he respected Angel. Flashbacks show that he and Angel were always at each other's throats.
The entire history between Angel, Spike, Drusilla, and Darla. Later revelations show that they were a foursome when Angel was re-ensouled, yet they never mention each other in the first few seasons. Darla seems ignorant of Angel's situation in the first season when she tries to convince him to join her side, and Spike likewise seems ignorant of Angel's goodness in his debut, despite later episodes showing him exposed to the good Angel.
Similarly, the first season has Darla trying to persuade the Master about the value of turning Angel to their side, with him admiring the prowess of Angelus, whereas a later episode revealed that he hated Angelus.
Both Spike and Angel had their ages changed. For Spike it happened twice. He went from "barely 200" in "School Hard", to 126 in "The Initiative", to 120 in "Fool For Love". Angel had 29 years added to his age in the episode Becoming.
A minor example concerning Anya's demon friend Halfrek. She was played by Kali Rocha who had appeared in another episode as Cecily, one of Spike's human love interests. In her next episode when she and Spike appeared on screen together they had Halfrek say "William?" and then the two avoided each other's gaze, implying Halfrek and Cecily to be the same person. Also Halfrek's flashback scene in "Selfless" was changed from the Renaissance to the Russian Revolution to support this.
Throughout the series it is firmly established that Sunnydale is the center of all evil activity (thanks to the Hellmouth) and has been for a long time. However, in the first season, no one in town (including Willow, Xander and Cordelia) seem to be aware of the existence of vampires and demons until Buffy shows up. Whedon tries to cover this up by claiming that everyone in town was just ignorant and/or in denial.
Sunnydale also seems to grow substantially in the first three seasons. In the first season several lines of dialogue make it sound like a small-ish town. Several people comment on how there's nothing to do or see there and Buffy is able to walk everywhere in town she needs to go. Later on Sunnydale is large enough to have its own University campus and a booming downtown district.
The notion that vampires are Always Chaotic Evil was starting to be done away with possibly as early as season 5, but it doesn't really take off until the Season 8 comics. The bonus/supplementary issue following 25, Tales of the Vampire, involves the aftermath of a teenage boy being transformed into a vampire, and neither he nor his vampire friends even come close to acting like any of the soulless monsters in seasons 1-3 of the television series. He briefly considers killing his mom, but quickly decides against it when she reveals that she still loves him no matter what. The idea of vampires killing people for food is even thrown out the window with Harmony's in-universe television show demonstrating that they can survive on non-lethal amount of blood from people. It goes hand in hand with the increasingly Black and Grey Morality of the series. Other hints / retcons are dropped throughout the TV series, such as the Master in Season 1 appearing much less human that younger vampires, the Judge in Season 2 noting that vampires such as Spike and Drusilla "stink of humanity", and the introduction in Season 7 of the Turok-Han, described as "neanderthal" vampires, suggesting that the series' contemporary vampires are much diluted by humanity.
The season 8 comics retcon Warren's death in season 6 and reveal that Amy Madison saved him. When fans pointed out that this was strange, as the First Evil impersonated him several timesnote , Joss hastily said that he had been legally dead for about a minute but Amy hadn't told him out of fear of upsetting him.
Up until season four Willow was shown to be secretly in love with Xander for years, falling in love with Oz and having a relationship with him for around a season and a half, and was generally shown to be interested in guys. Then abruptly within a span of few episodes she was turned into lesbian and all this history was glossed over.
Car 54, Where Are You? broke continuity to suit the backstory of the episode probably more than any other sitcom.
In Charmed the sisters constantly had to fight the risk of exposing their magic to the public. The season 3 finale revolves around them trying to get a demon to turn back time for them to reverse this. But season 6 adds in entities called The Cleaners whose job is to fix things whenever magic is exposed. They claim they've been watching the sisters from the beginning. They would have been really useful three years ago. One also wonders why they didn't step in to stop the bad future in "Morality Bites".
The show also frequently retcons the origins of certain powers/rules/entities between their introduction and subsequent appearances. A case-by-case Early Installment Weirdness, if you will.
The first mention of Leo's bosses identifies them as "a group of elder Whitelighters, called The Founders." The Founders title is immediately dropped, labeling them the Elders, and when a teenage witch is admitted into their ranks, it proves that even Elder is a Nonindicative Name and that they aren't even Whitelighters (who are regular humans who died committing an act of Good), meaning everything Leo said was wrong.
While it's a Warlock who first uses Blinking (Teleportation), it's stated explicitly that he must have stolen it from a witch, since that's the only way Warlocks get powers. Every subsequent appearance, Blinking is a default Warlock power, and when the sisters start Blinking, it's a sign that their alignment has been switched.
When retired-Whitelighter Sam uses Memory Dust on the girls, it's explained that he kept it from a previous witch charge. Later, it's a Whitelighter's tool which they're given by the Elders.
Barbas's first appearance states he only awakens every 1300 years on Friday the 13th. His second appearance, less than a season later, Handwaves his early return. His later recurring appearances don't even bother.
A cross-series Retcon occurred between Cheers and Frasier.
In a late Cheers episode, Frasier remarks that his father is dead and was a scientist in life, two things that are clearly not true in Frasier - it was explained as being the result of Frasier and Martin's relationship being quite cold at the time.
Penny was originally said to have been married six times. Later seasons retconned that into only engaged six times, and married four.
Parodied in The Conditions Of Great Detectives when, in the final episode, Banzo finds out his family has been completely rewritten without his knowledge. Originally his estranged wife was Japanese and they had a teenage daughter, Hanako who committed suicide. His new wife wants to get back together with him and run a restaurant together, she's also blonde and non-Japanese - and their new daughter (who has another name) is a lot younger and also blonde. Banzo compares the family photograph his "new wife" gave him and compares it to the photograph of the "old family" he carries in his wallet.
CSI: NY:
The series had Mac stating in the first episode that he used to sit with his wife in the hospital like he was doing with the locked-in victim. Although it could mean Claire was sick before her death and got better, it's likely that they retconned how she died on 9/11, from being pulled out of the rubble injured and dying in the hospital to her body never being found.
A more minor one was Clare being retconned as having auburn hair, rather than brunette like in the pictures Mac showed Reed in season 4. There are reasons for having a different actress-the writers not knowing they'd need an onscreen Claire for flashbacks and the woman in the pics possibly not being a professional actress-, but it appears the casting department still got a bit lazy.
The most egregious retcon in 20th century American entertainment is the soap Dallas which, in order to bring a character Back from the Dead, made an entire season All Just a Dream. You'd think a Soap Opera, of all things, could figure out an easier way to bring someone back.
Daredevil:
The "Nelson v. Murdock" flashbacks in season 1 get subject to this in season 2. The flashbacks to Matt and Elektra's college relationship in season 2 are said to have happened "ten years ago" and after Matt had met Foggy. Yet season 2 is implicitly set in 2015, and Matt (who is shown to be friends with Foggy at the time) only started law school with Foggy in Fall 2010.
In the "Nelson v. Murdock" flashbacks, Foggy suggests that Elektra was in Spanish classes with Matt, when the flashbacks of Matt and Elektra's college relationship establish that while Elektra was financially connected to the college, she wasn't actually attending classes.
Doctor Who: Many of the most notable features of the series, such as regeneration and the Time Lords, were retconned in, often to account for some out-of-character problem.
The Time Lords' binary vascular system was introduced in the Third Doctor's first story and has remained a consistent feature of Gallifreyan biology ever since, despite the fact it was indicated that the Doctor only had one heart in the third story of the show. An accepted explanation by fanon and books and audio is that Time Lords only gain the second heart after their first regeneration.
In "The Sea Devils", the Doctor points out that the cave creatures from "Doctor Who and the Silurians" should have, in fact, been named the "Eocenes" instead of the "Silurians", because of the epoch they originated from, which is the real-life author (same for both stories) correcting his earlier mistake when he was called on it after the broadcast of the first story. Unfortunately, it's highly unlikely that that they could have come from the Eocene period, either.
"The Brain of Morbius" displays the faces of previous incarnations of the Doctor at one point, including several others in addition to those of the first three Doctors. These were retconned to have been Morbius' previous incarnations just a handful of stories later in "The Deadly Assassin", in which the Fourth Doctor informs Borusa that he's only had three "face lifts", and in which the twelve-regeneration limit was established. Re-retconned in "The Timeless Children", which makes those previous reincarnations of the Doctor after all.
The Doctor has blue Alien Blood in "State of Decay", but normal red blood ever before and normal red blood ever after.
"The Two Doctors" was an attempt by Robert Holmes to retcon the early eras of the show. The loosely canonical "Season 6B" — which claims that the Doctor wasn't regenerated at the end of "The War Games", but was sent by the Time Lords on various missions around the cosmos — is actually less insane than what Robert Holmes was planning! Holmes figured that it was impossible for the Time Lords to just lose track of a TARDIS, so in reality the Doctor had been working for them from the very beginning! This also explains why the first and second Doctors were never able to control the destination of the TARDIS. Holmes said that after the events of "The War Games" the Doctor's superiors let the Doctor take the fall for his interference, even though he had been acting on their orders.
"Rose": While telling off the Doctor for treating Mickey's apparent death so callously, Rose mentions that she's going to have to inform Mickey's mother that he's dead. Over a season later, in "Rise of the Cybermen", when Mickey's family history is revealed, Rose explains that he was raised by his grandmother because his father ran off and his mother "couldn't cope", with the wording and tone of voice implying she's dead and has been for some time. The 2018 novelization of "Rose" provides more detail and sticks to the later version of the Smith family history by revealing that Odessa Smith committed suicide when Mickey was around 5, and changing Rose's dialogue in the riverbank scene to have her say that she's going to have to tell his friends that he's dead.
"Aliens of London" has a coroner, referred to in the credits as Dr. Sato, who examines the fake pig-alien after it's brought to Albion Hospital. The actress was later cast in the spinoff Torchwood as one of the main characters, Toshiko Sato, who was not a doctor at all. Tosh's presence at the hospital was retconned as her covering for her colleague Owen, who was a doctor, because he'd had a hangover.
"The Sound of Drums" introduces the idea that Time Lords can psychically sense each other, which is how the Doctor is able to quickly identify the Master in the 21st century despite the fact that he'd regenerated before escaping from the end of the universe, without the Doctor, Martha and Jack seeing his new face. This ability did not exist in the classic series, with the Doctor occasionally unwittingly interacting with disguised Time Lords like the Master and the Rani while none-the-wiser, and after "The End of Time", Russell T Davies' last story as showrunner, it has never been mentioned again: Davies' successors Steven Moffat and Chris Chibnall chose to ignore the ability while introducing new incarnations of the Master, having the Doctor being unaware of their archenemy's true identity after meeting them until a dramatic reveal. (Upshot: only Ten had this ability, apparently.)
Uniquely, Doctor Who has had two paratextual retcons during the Tenth and Eleventh Doctor's tenures, consisting of in-universe explanations for the theme song and title.
NuWho Series 7 and 50th Anniversary Special "The Day of the Doctor" managed to retcon in an entire new Doctor. When it was revealed that a secret hidden Doctor, played by John Hurt, existed, fan theories melted down the Internet (including on this very wiki) as to who he really was. One fan theory that was roundly rejected was that he was the Doctor who fought in the Time War and destroyed both his planet and people and the Daleks as well, thus the epic guilt that caused him to try and forget that persona. The problem there was that the Doctor had spoken frequently about his involvement in the war, and the action he took to destroy both sides, leaving himself as the sole survivor, and the massive guilt he feels. None of that was a secret, so why would the body he used to do it in be one? Of course, once the fiftieth anniversary special aired, it turned out that that was indeed who John Hurt's Doctor was, meaning that every line of dialogue establishing that Christopher Eccleston's Doctor was the ninth, David Tennant's the tenth, Matt Smith's the eleventh, etc., were all lies that the Doctor was telling so that he could try and forget the version of himself that committed the heinous act that he had no trouble talking about in all three of his subsequent forms. On the other hand, the Tenth Doctor's line about regenerating "half a dozen times" since the last time he saw Sarah Jane has a new meaning now: he didn't forget about the events of "The Five Doctors" after all. The series itself at least tries to avert the numbering controversy arising from this retcon by having the Eleventh Doctor point out that his John Hurt incarnation renounced the name of the Doctor, feeling that he didn't deserve that title after what he did in the Time War. Thus, while he was the ninth incarnation of our favourite Time Lord, he wasn't the ninth Doctor. Although, confusingly, the end credits name him "The War Doctor".
The series long neural-clone subplot in Farscape hadn't actually been thought of when Harvey first appears in "Crackers Don't Matter". The writers needed to think of a way to have Scorpius appear more frequently without losing his menace in the process, so decided to have him pop up as an off-kilter hallucination. It worked so well, they ran with it and started dropping hints something more was going on inside Crichton's noggin, before introducing Harvey proper later in the same season.
Forever Knight did some retconning of the main characters' histories between the made-for-TV film and the actual television series. Nick was only about 200 years old in the film, with Janette being about 400. This means that much of their history was only conceived for the film. Kinda justified, though, since a film wouldn't have as much backstory and character development as a series would over its run.
Friends:
Ross is shown in later seasons as having a long-standing passion for dinosaurs that stretches back to childhood. However, in the first season, he states he only picked paleontology as his major on a dare.
Flashback episodes were particularly egregious with this, resulting in the internal history that makes little sense. In the first episode, after Rachel flees from her wedding and first encounters Monica and Ross, it's implied she hasn't seen them in years, and that she and Monica were little more than casual acquaintances growing up - Monica wasn't even invited to the wedding. Later flashback episodes portrayed Monica and Rachel as practically being best friends in high school, attending prom and parties together, and Rachel spending Thanksgiving at the Geller home.
Also in the first episode, other than Monica and Ross, none of the other characters recognize Rachel, including Chandler. In the third season, it's revealed that Chandler had actually met Rachel just a year before her wedding, and wanted to sleep with her. Another episode reveals they had met even earlier than that, while Rachel was still in high school. Yet another episode ("The One Where the Stripper Cries") revealed that Chandler and Rachel had kissed during a college party.
Also, in "The One With the Prom Video", it's clear that Chandler had never seen fat Monica or pre-nose job Rachel, but in a later episode he was retconned into meeting them...and actually caused Monica to lose weight!
An early episode also had Rachel imply she had met Chandler at Phoebe's birthday party. Luckily, the phrasing is ambiguous enough that it could also mean she met Chandler in the first episode as was initially assumed.
Friends was notoriously bad at doing more harm than good with their retconning, as the episode "The One Where Chandler Can't Cry" goes to show. The entire premise of the episode was (in typical Friends fashion) exactly what it said on the tin. Only, Chandler was easily the most emotional of the boys, and had several earlier episodes revolving around this fact. He had the same thing happen with his sudden and crippling fear of dogs. The same episode that introduced Chandler's dog phobia also reveals that Ross hates ice cream... despite the fact that a past episode (The One After the Super Bowl) shows him just fine with eating it.
Then in "The One With The Sharks", it's brought up that Phoebe has never been in a relationship that lasted longer than a month, or lived with a partner, both of which happened at previous points in the series. While the whole living with a guy issue can be brushed off due to the fact Phoebe broke up with him after one night of living together, another episode had a boyfriend of Phoebe's mentioning that they had been together over a month. Phoebe also once mentioned near the end of the series that she had never been married before. She technically had - she married a Canadian man who she thought was gay so he could get a green card.
In yet another late season episode, it's suggested (through a throwaway line) that Ross got drunk and slept with the cleaning lady as a teenager. Really puts his constant whining during the first two seasons about Carol being his first and, until the start of season two, only sexual partner in a new light, doesn't it?
In Gilmore Girls, Dean is originally introduced as having just moved from Chicago and enjoying obscure books and movies in season 1. Once he breaks up with Rory, he is retconned to be a book dumb, country bumpkin who can't imagine living in a big city after living in Stars Hollow most of his life (despite having only moved there when he was 15 and disappearing from the show when he was roughly 19) in order to draw a clearer contrast between Dean and Rory's new love interest, Jess, who recently moved to town from New York City and enjoys obscure books and movies.
Glee: Blaine was acknowledged to be a sophomore towards the end of season two and a brief appearance from an episode taking place the year before seals that, but this appearance (which takes place at the beginning of the school year) conflicts with a prior continuity about his being attacked at his old school's Sadie Hawkins dance and his subsequent transfer to Dalton Academy.
Good Times: The 1976-1977 season finale saw Florida marry an elderly gentleman named Carl Dixon and the two moving to Arizona (to tend to Carl's frail health condition); this was done to explain Esther Rolle's departure from the cast. When she agreed to return at the beginning of the 1978-1979 season, one of her demands was — and it was granted — that no mention of Carl ever be made, not even why he was no longer in Florida's life. (Rolle, whose Florida character was a devout Christian, said she did not want her character associated with a hardcore atheist.) Although fans often speculated about Carl's departure (death, a particularly acrimonious divorce, etc.), no mention about the Carl-Florida relationship or its end was ever made.
Gossip Girl has done this with Chuck's parents so many times that it's hard to keep track of what is currently canon.
In the pilot, both his parents are alive. Then it turns out his mother died giving birth to him and his father has never forgiven him for it. Then it turns out his mother is actually alive after all. Then maybe Elizabeth Hurley is his real mom and his Uncle Jack is his real dad. After that, there was no point in trying to keep track anymore.
Showrunner Josh Safran really, really, really wanted people to ship Dan and Blair like he does even though Blair and Chuck are the show's Super Couple and the reason most people tune in at all. So in season five he alluded that Dan has had feelings for Blair all along and that in season one he was the only one who went to her (previously never mentioned) essay contest to support her. Never mind the fact that Blair and Dan hated each other until mid season four. Or that the episode that takes place a week after the supposed essay contest has Dan wondering if it's worth dating Serena (the girl he had been in love with for ages) because he's not sure he likes what it says about her that she can stand to be friends with a person as awful as Blair. Most of the fandom refuses to acknowledge that the essay contest ever happened since it doesn't fit in at all with what was going on in season one.
Safran took it even further in his interviews where he retconned so much stuff you wonder if he ever actually watched the show himself. A particularly glaring example is when he claimed Blair was never friends with Nate or Chuck. Even though the close friendship between the three of them and Serena is one of the key elements of the show.
In H₂O: Just Add Water, the human girls-turned-mermaids frequently swim around Mako Island, and spend quite a lot of time in the Moon Pool underneath the volcano. In Mako Mermaids: An H₂O Adventure, it's revealed that a pod of natural-born mermaids live around the island and spend quite a bit of time in the Moon Pool themselves, and the pod has existed for centuries, something never even hinted at by the former show. (The two shows are confirmed to take place in the same continuity due to Rikki's appearance in the latter.) The natural mermaids appear to have no idea that the girls from the first series existed, as Mimmi and Ondina are surprised to learn about Rikki. It's justified why the former show's girls didn't show up in the latter show before Rikki's appearance (they'd moved away; this had happened to Emma before the former show even finished), but not how the former show's girls (or Miss Chatham's squad in the former show's backstory) completely missed the Mako Pod every time they went swimming, except in the meta sense that Mako Mermaids and its backstory hadn't been planned yet when H₂O was being created.
Heroes:
Season 2 has a clumsy example. In the middle of the first season, it's revealed that Matt's wife is pregnant. This causes a few fans to wonder if the baby is really his, since she cheated on him earlier in the season. However, in an episode set five years in the future, we learn that the kid is named after Matt, sends him crayon drawings of himself and mommy from hiding, and, most tellingly in a show where almost everyone with superpowers gets them from Super Powerful Genetics, has a power. Then in an early Season 2 episode, Matt says that whoops, turns out it wasn't his kid after all. In "Fight or Flight," a later Season 2 episode, however, it is implied that he has accepted that it isn't his child without any actual proof, when he has a nightmare in which his wife chastises him for not reading her mind and learning the truth, so this may be a reversion more than rewrite.
In S1, Mohinder was originally said to have been two years old when his sister died, but they changed it so that he was born months before she died in order to wrestle Molly into his plotline.
Season 3 retcons Sylar's murderous ways as a side effect of his original ability. His ability to know how things work apparently gave him a "hunger" to kill people just so he can satisfy his fix for more power. This of course ignores that S1 and S2 showed him utterly reveling in murder, even when he didn't have any abilities. The writers have a go at fixing this one again, with Sylar shown to have gone through a guilt ridden phase around the time the series began, presumably redecorating appropriately. The plot that tried to explain this retcon also retconned Elle's background, as she is portrayed as relatively normal and even caring and guilt-ridden, rather than sociopathic and murderous as in season 2. This contradicts season 2, in which she states she was diagnosed as a sociopath at eight.
Take it as a retcon or a further loss of his humanity, but as of season four Sylar can seemingly suppress his hunger (evidenced by a casual road trip that lasted for several episodes next to tasty brain Luke) but still revels in his murderous behavior, perhaps moreso.
It seems that every other episode that something new is added to Noah Bennet's back story that wasn't there before. A prime example in season 4 when Noah almost participated in an affair during the events of season 1, when his daughter was in danger. Then later in the season, he had a deceased wife that had never, ever been mentioned in the plot before.
Claire having magic blood in Series 2 which can resurrect anyone from the dead, such as when Noah Bennet was killed after being shot in the eye. This is promptly forgotten after this incident and by Series 4, when her biological father Nathan is killed, reviving him in this way is never an option.
The actual cause of what gives them powers has also been retconned several times. At first its hinted at being a genetic trait which has something to do with the brain. This made some semblance of sense, until an Eclipse somehow turned everyone's power off. And then Hiro's mother had some kind of mystical power that was the key to abilities.
There's also Sylar's parentage. When he's first seen, it appears his parents were ordinary people (indeed, they're too ordinary for him). It's later revealed that he's adopted, and that his real parents are Angela and Arthur Petrelli. This is later retconned too, and it's revealed that his real father was an evil psychopath that killed Sylar's mother.
Highlander is full of retcons between the films and the series. One huge example is Connor's fight with The Kurgan. The series retconned it to simply being a really big quickening from a normal battle rather than The Prize. Other retcons were about the immortals' physiology and abilities. Series immortals died temporarily when injured, unlike the film, where they just kept on going and could walk under water without drowning.
The MTV Reality Show The Hills was a major offender when it came to this. During the pre-credits voiceovers, new dialogue and/or footage would be added to address what the episode's focus would be, even if it conflicted with events as they were seen in previous episodes. These included, but were not limited to, pleasant conversations between characters being reframed to look more antagonistic, characters describing events that never could have occurred within the timeframe of the show, extra dialogue being looped into conversations (said when the camera isn't on them) to change the focus of the plot, and deleted footage that showed characters doing activities that they were never seen to have done in the previous episode. This fed a lot of fan speculation as to whether or not the show was scripted.
At the end of season five of House, the main character loses his mind (said to be caused by a number of reasons, from too much Vicodin to Survivor's Guilt over Kutner and Amber's deaths) and is scared enough to go to a mental hospital. At the beginning of season 6, it's claimed that he just needs to be off the pills and "learn how to love", which the Girl of the Week Lydia teaches him how to do, because apparently Stacy didn't count. Weirdly, after a couple of mentions, Lydia is never mentioned again, and there's big sad analyzing with Kutner/Amber/Stacy hallucinations in the finale, maybe as an Author's Saving Throw.
House of Anubis has two in the third season:
The main villain is Robert Frobisher-Smythe, who'd been mentioned several times during the other two seasons. In the first season, in fact, he was explicitly mentioned as being dead. This was confirmed by Nina seeing his ghost. Suddenly in season three, however, he was just in cryogenic sleep and could be re-awakened.
Season two introduced a new section of the house, underground tunnels, where the students had to due tasks to complete the current treasure hunt. But in season three, this tunnel suddenly gained a new hallway, one that the characters acted as though existed the entire time.
Kamen Rider Double has an example in the form of Katsumi Daido/Kamen Rider Eternal, the Big Bad of The Movie. There, we were told that he was a kind-hearted boy who died of an unspecified illness, prompting his bereaved scientist mother to volunteer him for an experimental plan to revive the dead as Super Soldiers; unfortunately he Came Back Wrong, regarding himself as an "undead monster", and plotted to kill off the entire city of Fuuto so they would share his pain. Then after the series ended, Daido was given his own focus movie that retconned almost everything about him in order to make him more sympathetic. Besides changing the manner of his death (hit by a truck), it was shown that the revival process wasn't faulty at all: Daido had been a good person all along, but went off the deep end after failing to save an evil Mad Scientist's test subjects.
Monk:
The series has had a couple involving Trudy's death. First, it's originally stated that Monk was there by Trudy's side as she died from the car bomb, but later episodes show he was across town. Additionally, Monk originally did not know that the reason she'd left that fateful day was to pick up medication for his brother Ambrose, and Ambrose personally blamed himself for her death as he felt that if she hadn't done so than maybe she'd still be alive. However, in Ambrose's first appearance, along with a flashback to the day of her death in the series finale, it is mentioned that Trudy is picking up Ambrose's medication.
Additionally, in one episode as part of a gang of Chinese criminals' plan to lead him to Monk, they attempt to trick him with fortune cookies. One of the fortunes states that he will receive money from an uncle, which Randy rebukes since he only has two aunts and no uncles whatsoever (it was actually referring to tax return money, the uncle in question being "Uncle Sam.") Two seasons later, another episode is kick-started with the death of Randy's uncle. Not only that, but Randy visited his farm several times as a kid.
In My Parents Are Aliens an episode showing how the aliens met the children shows that Brian and Sophie originally had disguises resembling the presenters of Crimewatch before changing into their familiar forms. Later in the series 7 finale they said that they stole the identities from the children's real uncle and aunt, also named Brian and Sophie.
In Night Court, Brent Spiner played a character named Bob Wheeler from West Virginia. After a number of people from that state complained it was later revealed he and his family had actually come from Yugoslavia.
Once Upon a Time:
The series does this with the Frozen mythology - despite following the continuity of the movie almost directly. Anna and Elsa's mother (renamed from Idun to Gerda) is revealed to have two sisters Ingrid and Helga. Ingrid had ice powers like Elsa and accidentally killed Helga with them. As a result Gerda sealed Ingrid inside an urn and got the trolls to erase her sisters from the memory of everyone in Arendelle. This is also implied to be how the parents knew about the trolls (through Gerda) whereas the movie implies that the king was the one who knew.
Season 3 retcons Cora's backstory into having an illegitimate daughter before Regina who she gave up in order to marry into royalty.
The pilot episode has Snow White remark that Regina "poisoned an apple because she thought I was prettier than her". We later learn that Regina's vendetta has nothing to do with her being pretty.
The third episode has the prince ask if Snow ruined Regina's life and she replies that she did. The reason is revealed to be that Snow told Regina's mother about her daughter's romance with the stable boy - resulting in his death and Regina being forced to marry her father. In the episode that shows this, Regina lies to the younger Snow White and says the stable boy simply ran away - with the aforementioned episode implying Snow later found out the truth. However she finds out about the death right before she bites the apple - which chronologically takes place after the conversation between her and the prince.
Season 5 adds another retcon between Regina and Zelena. This time it's revealed that the two actually met when they were children, and were even friends for a short time. After the two sisters discovered they were related, their mother believed that Zelena would jeopardize her plans to make Regina queen, so she forced them apart again and wiped their memories of their meeting.
It's revealed right from the start that Regina got the Dark Curse from Rumplestiltskin, thereby implying that he's the one who created it. But then Season 4 reveals that he just stole it from the cave where it had been hidden, suggesting that he didn't have anything to do with its creation. This is confirmed in Season 6, with the revelation that it was actually the Black Fairy, the show's Ultimate Evil and Rumple's mother, who actually created the curse.
In a mid Season 2 episode, Cora tries to remove Emma's heart but is magically blocked, with the implication that it's merely because of Emma being the Savior. Near the end of Season 6, however, when the Black Fairy tries to do the same, it's revealed that Emma's heart actually contains powerful Magic Music which protects her.
The first two seasons of Parks and Recreation involved a fairly prominent characted named Mark Brendanawicz. He begins a serious relationship with Ann but they break up and he's Put on a Bus at the end of season 2. In the following seasons the characters act as if Mark never existed.
Before his departure he gave Leslie plans to build a park on Lot 48. Leslie eventually succeeds in getting the park built, but Mark's plans were never used or mentioned.
The writers planned to have Mark reappear every once in awhile, but that idea was scrapped since Paul Schneider had no interest in returning to the series
Power Rangers:
Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers has one when it came replacing Rangers. In season 2, when Jason, Trini, and Zack had to leave, the team needed to acquire a special sword to transfer their powers to Rocky, Aisha, and Adam, but in the following season, when Kimberly needed to give her powers to Kat, she just handed her power coin away. The comic Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Pink also included this event in its past, but explained that since the Sword of Light hadn't been used then, Kim had actually retained her powers but was unable to morph anymore due to lacking a physical morpher. Also, the ages of the original Rangers were 16-17 as evidenced by the fact that they drive cars. The original finale "Doomsday" would see the rangers battle and defeat Rita and give up their powers and go to a prom. However, based on the popularity of the show, Saban altered the episode to not be a finale and leave room for more story. The prom part was cut out and the Rangers were retconned to being 14-15 in order to keep them around longer.
Power Rangers Ninja Storm originally indicated that it wasn't part of previous Power Rangers continuity, but their team-up with Power Rangers Dino Thunder (and before that, the 500th episode "Legacy of Power") shoved it back in.
Power Rangers Operation Overdrive changed Power Rangers Mystic Force's own rules when, during the anniversary episode "Once A Ranger", it's stated that all powers are connected to the Morphing Grid, retconning Mystic Force's magic reasoning.
Power Rangers Samurai retconned the previous season, RPM, out of continuity with every other Power Rangers series, and this was originally intended to be done to every Disney era show until the production staff saw what was going on with Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger and had to backpedal on going through with it. Suffice to say, fans did not take it well when Clash of the Red Rangers aired. The reason behind this is because Jonathan Tzachor publicly stated he hated the Disney era shows and wanted to disregard them. He also has tried to say that every Power Rangers season is out-of-canon with each other after In Space outside of the crossovers.
Power Rangers Megaforce essentially retconned the Sentai series from before Kyoryu Sentai Zyuranger as well as the suits from Gosei Sentai Dairanger as just powers that weren't brought to Earth.
Prison Break did this with alarming frequency, to the point that they actually resurrected a character whose DECAPITATED HEAD WAS SHOWN ONSCREEN. This was retconned as a female guard helping her escape before the assassin had a chance to behead her. Instead, the assassin chose to behead the guard and deliberately left the package in a dark place, so nobody would look at the features.
Red Dwarf is full of retcons. Major examples include the number of the ship's original crew being raised from 169 to 1169 (and raised to 11169 in the books), Lister having his appendix removed twice and Lister's relationship with Kochanski being altered from simply someone Lister was interested in but never asked out to ex girlfriend.
One of the cruelest endings in live-action sitcoms came from Roseanne, which saw Dan, Roseanne's husband and Conner family patriarch, reveal to have actually died in the previous season's finale from a heart attack and that the entire following season was a book Roseanne was writing. The 2018 revival tosses all of that into the Discontinuity Bin by showing that Dan's alive and well, though wearing CPAP machine gear for his health.
Sabrina the Teenage Witch:
The series establishes that the curse that will turn Sabrina's mother into a ball of wax is only supposed to last two years - so it should lift when Sabrina turns eighteen. Yet in the sixth season (where Sabrina is 20-21) it's still in effect. And when they go to the Witches' Council to appeal, none of them mentions that the curse should have expired by now.
Season 3 shows that cousin Amanda has a little sister Allie. She's never mentioned nor referenced after this.
Although Scrubs doesn't usually do a lot of continuity, there are still examples of this:
One of the later episodes has a throwaway joke where J.D.'s friends claim that he cannot see women wearing their wedding ring. If that is the case, how was he able to see Carla in the later half of the show (5-9), or T.C.W., for that matter...
Another J.D.-related retcon is that in later season of Scrubs, he says he doesn't like beer. In the earlier seasons of Scrubs, however, he's clearly shown drinking beer in some episodes. Turk eventually calls him on this when he claims he can't drink beer, and he admits that he's been making up excuses to drink appletinis (which is itself a retcon, since part of the gag about the appletinis was that he doesn't even realise other people find it unusual).
Elliott from season 2 onwards can't say dirty words as a result of her mother's influence as a child, making up her own euphemisms. Yet she had no problem saying "penis" and "vagina" in several season 1 episodes.
Done ambiguously in regards to Janitor's Multiple-Choice Past. After mentioning his father dying when he was a kid, J.D. points out he met Janitor's father. Janitor responds, "You met a man."
Smallville:
The most egregious example of this was a vital clue hidden in a stained-glass window that hadn't been there in the previous episode, as well as the same window had been destroyed several times over the course of the series. The ridiculousness of retconning a window a week after it had last been seen casts a shadow on what would have been otherwise well-written.
The original meteor shower that brought Clark to Earth now includes Davis 'Doomsday' Bloom several feet away. Lionel's agents manage to reach Davis after the Kents have already carried Clark home.
The show introduced a major character from the comics, Jimmy Olsen, in S6. He had a supporting role for the next three years, then they decided to kill him off in the season finale. To keep the show in line with the comics, they had his funeral reveal that his name is actually Henry James Olsen, and it was implied that his previously unheard of little brother was the real Jimmy Olsen. Three years' worth of retcon!
Spooks the main arc of Season 9 qualifies (it qualifies as other nasty tropes too) Lucas is actually Evil!Lucas… turns out he was " lying to himself" being the perfect spy: it all comes out of nowhere and makes NO SENSE whatsoever.
Retcons galore in Stargate SG-1:
In the episode where Zat guns (a type of stun-gun) were introduced, they were shown to be capable of disintegrating people and things if they were shot three times. This was used once to get rid of dead bodies that the crew didn't want to have to leave on set, once to destroy a dead body so SG-1 wouldn't get noticed, and once to destroy evidence of SG-1's presence during a time-travel adventure, then dropped completely because it was silly and overpowered. Now zats only stun people, or kill them if shot enough times. This is referenced in episode 100 "Wormhole X-treme!". On set for the show-within-the-show, someone suggests giving their stun gun a feature to dissolve dead bodies so they won't have to be there for the romantic scene that follows, but the idea is denounced as stupid.
Another under-noticed retcon is the fact that Hathor was able to turn humans into Jaffa, which is mentioned both times she appears but never again. Apparently the other Goa'uld forgot how to do it too?
The show retcons a number of things from the original movie, despite the movie itself still being mostly canon:
Ra wasn't the last of his species. The series suggests that the Abydonians were tricked by Ra to think he was the only one, to ensure their loyalty.
The Goa'uld didn't look like Protoss with mouths. Within the series this is never explained, but in extended universe material it says that Ra's previous host was an Asgard, which does look somewhat like the alien shown in the movie. Apparently the Asgard can't make for healthy hosts.
Abydos isn't "on the other side of the known universe," but one of the closest planets to Earth, which is used to explain why other addresses didn't work until they readjusted the dialing software to account for stellar drift. Non-canon explanations state that the technicians during the first Abydos mission were incorrect with their calculations for distance.
A few names were changed: Jack O'Neil becomes Jack O'Neill (which is lampshaded by O'Neil's statement that there's another Colonel O'Neil with one L, and "he has no sense of humor"); his wife Sarah and son Tyler become his ex-wife Sara and his son Charlie; Daniel's wife Shau'ri becomes Sha're; and the fictional Creek Mountain complex becomes the real-life Cheyenne Mountain complex. Sha'uri became Sha're because Michael Shanks (the actor playing Daniel Jackson in the series) had trouble with the "au" diphthong.
One of the better retcons from the movie was the reason for Daniel Jackson's career nosedive. In the movie, he's laughed at for arguing, with evidence, that the pyramids are older than we know, simply because he didn't know who built them. The series changed this so that instead of one of his mocking audience suggesting aliens built them, it was Jackson himself which makes his getting laughed at perfectly understandable.
One of the more plot-significant retcons has to do with the fact that the symbols on each gate are now the same except for one (the symbol designating the gate's point of origin), so they don't have to spend half of every episode figuring out the return address like they did in the movie. All addresses are based on points in space derived from Earth constellations.
In order to fit the constraints of a TV series, they dropped the language issues that were such a big part of the plot of the movie, and now everyone in the galaxy seems to speak English. This is never addressed in-universe, however one of the writers flippantly suggested that the Stargate injects Translator Microbes into travellers. Which work for every language except Goa'uld, Asgard, Ancient, and Unas, apparently.
Mid third season of Stargate Atlantis shows the first shot of the interstellar gate bridge. The first episode of season four shows its completion. Watch carefully in this scene. At one point, we see Carter moving past a computer with a wire frame of a Stargate, notably looking like it has an iris on it. Fastforward to episode seventeen where an entirely brand new line is added into the "previously on" segment, where McKay claims there is actually no need for the midway gates to have irises at all. This change is made for no reason other than to have an episode where the Wraith board the midway station and destroy it. The fallout of this episode is that the I.O.A refuses to build another because they're afraid of the same tactic. The possibility of building another and just adding irises is conveniently never brought up, so it would appear this retcon was all for the sake of justifying the permanent removal of a quick way back to Earth from the series.
The Star Trek franchise is a Shared Universe spanning more than fifty years, with writing of, to put it kindly, variable quality. Naturally, it has had many retcons:
The Klingon makeup change was just better budgeting from the show to the movies. Worf's scene in Deep Space Nine in the flashback turned it into an actual plot point.
The reference was meant to be a quick joke about the effects budget in an episode that was already tongue in cheek. The writers expressed total bafflement over how much of an uproar it had created with the fandom. Reactions in Usenet newsgroups ranged from "can't you guys relax and take a joke", to "we demand answers NOW!" to "We were fine ignoring it until you morons brought it up". The same lunacy also made another Worf joke from that same episode, the "The Great Klingon Tribble Hunt", official canon. Canon is serious business.
In the end, Star Trek: Enterprise resolved the matter once and for all, proposing that the change was a side effect to the cure for a fast-spreading plague.
The changes we see in Kang, Koloth and Kor are alluded to as well, as the episode ends with a Klingon doctor speculating on the fortune to be made in the reconstructive surgery business — an option for seasoned veterans who had acquired fame and fortune in their younger days, but probably not for young starship commanders looking to make names for themselves. (And neatly ties up the early version of the Klingon makeup used in Star Trek: The Motion Picture as the result of botched reconstructive surgery.)
The Klingon language brought about a minor retcon. It was decided, while it was being developed, that it shouldn't contain a /k/ sound, because "K means Aliens" was already a well-established cliche that they wished to avoid. The problem being, of course, that the language was being written for a race with a K in their name. It was then made canon that they weren't really called "Klingons", that was just a minor mistranslation, and the actual name was "thlIngan".
Then along comes Star Trek: Discovery (taking place between ENT and TOS) and completely ignores this explanation with an even weirder look for Klingons (e.g. even more prominent ridges, no hair at all). It was initially claimed that it's just one house that looks this way. This is quickly Jossed when the leaders of all major houses are presented and are shown to also have the new look.
The season two Retconned that, as the Klingons now sport hair (the argument introduced being they shaved their heads when going to war). More noticeable than the hair, released photographs of Mary Chieffo as L'Rell show her head is not nearly as non-human as it had been in season one, and her skin tone changed from the purple/lavender it appeared in the first season to a more "traditional" look◊.
Exactly the same thing happened to the Ferengi between Star Trek: The Next Generation and Deep Space Nine, turning from a mighty empire with warships that seriously threatened the Enterprise into a one-note joke race of scheming cowards.
TNG's pilot, "Encounter at Farpoint", implied that the Ferengi were known for eating sentient beings. This was never brought up again.
TNG introduced an entire new race mid-series: the Cardassians. They had never been mentioned before, and yet in their very first episode, it is made clear that the Federation and Cardassians had been at war. And recently enough to be living memory for several crew members. Indeed, the plot of the Cardassian introduction episode is all about the psychological fallout from them. They got a lot of mileage out of this retcon.
And then again during TNG, the Borg changed from assimilating only technology to being essentially techno-vampires. Later on, in VOY, Chakotay meets a group of former Borg drones, some of whom claim to have been assimilated at the Battle of Wolf 359. Except that particular cube was destroyed with all hands.
In the final episode of Star Trek: The Original Series, "Turnabout Intruder", Dr. Janice Lester pulls a Grand Theft Me on Kirk to break through the glass ceiling, because even in the utopian future of Star Trek, women were apparently barred from service as starship captains. This embarrassing piece of 1960s male chauvinism was retconned out by attributing it to the delusions of a mentally unstable woman, despite Kirk's explicit on-screen acceptance of both the accuracy of her accusations, and the injustice of the policy. Subsequently, Star Trek: Enterprise gave the NX-02 an all-female bridge crew.
The revelation made late in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine that Dr. Bashir is a genetically engineered superhuman causes numerous conflicts with earlier episodes, and basically makes him an awful person through Fridge Logic. For instance, the episode reveals that he could win every game of darts against O'Brien. Not only does this make their entire friendship seem like a farce, since playing darts is the chief activity they're seen enjoying together, but it contradicts the episode "Visionary" where O'Brien's foreknowledge of where Bashir's darts are going to hit was used to show that he had really been to the future. Then the episode "Distant Voices" is centered around an alien probing his mind and drawing out his deepest secrets, but him knowing himself to be the product of illegal genetic engineering never comes up.
Also in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Sisko's status as one of the holiest people in all of Bajor, the Emissary of the Prophets and the one who found the Celestial Temple, was not realized until around the end of season three, even though he takes on that role from the first episode. He's so holy that every Bajoran walks on eggshells around him and is deeply honored to even be in the same room as him. Even Kira later admits she doesn't dare to get to know him better because he's the Emissary. And yet, initially, people don't treat him any differently than any other Starfleet officer. Kira even angrily complains to his superiors behind his back. In a custody case he was deemed an appropriate judge by a Bajoran because he "is also a father", not because his holiness is second only to the Kai.
Taking this further, if one revisits the Season 2 TNG episode "Unnatural Selection", where the Darwin station scientists are engineering perfect humans, those scientists are doing something wholly criminal (by any measure several orders of magnitude worse than what Julian's parents did) and really should have been taken into custody by Picard. This is somewhat mitigated by the The Lost Era Novel (The Buried Age) which revealed Darwin station was to be used as a test case to explore the field despite fear that it would spiral out of control.
Star Trek: The Next Generation has a revelation that excessive warp speeds are causing holes in spacetime (in an Anvilicious Aesop about pollution and the environment), which prompts the Federation to limit ships to Warp 5. Characters in a couple of subsequent episodes pay lip service to the "speed limit" right before they break it, but after that it is forgotten completely, with the general Fan Wank being that an improved version of the Warp Drive that didn't mess up subspace was invented. May also apply to what ought to be the inevitable ramifications of a new technology or application thereof, such as retrieving a heretofore-disintegrated crew member out of the pattern buffers of the transporter. In Peter David's Star Trek: New Frontier novels, there's an offhand reference from a character who can "see" spacetime about the damage still being done by warp travel. This got so noted that fanfiction writers No-Prized it, coming up with the dual ideas of the ruts worn in spactime healing over a period of time and simply changing your routes to avoid cumulative Spatial Fatigue.
In Star Trek: Voyager, The Mole Seska claimed to Chakotay that she impregnated herself by stealing his DNA. She also told Kazon leader Cullah, who she was sleeping with, that the baby was his. After the baby was born and was clearly a Cardassian/human hybrid with no Kazon-like features, Cullah was naturally pretty pissed off, which led us into the season ending cliffhanger. However, between seasons everyone decided that the Kazon weren't up to the job of being the show's big recurring bad guys they were envisioned as, much like the Ferengi on TNG, so they decided to drop them from the show entirely. This involved Seska dying, and Cullah running away with the baby. Naturally, fans wouldn't accept Chakotay's kid being raised by the Kazon, however unwillingly he fathered it, so just before this the Doctor reveals it is actually Cullah's baby after all. The baby's appearance is Hand Waved by saying there's never been a Cardassian/Kazon hybrid before so before now no one knew what one would look like, and it'll probably develop Kazon features as it ages.
An in-universe case (or series of cases, really) of this forms the basis of the two-part Star Trek: Voyager episode "Year of Hell". The Big Bad has developed a weapon that lets him use retcons to change the timeline (while he himself is protected by Applied Phlebotinum). He first uses it to reverse a stunning defeat to his species... Only to discover that he's now made them vulnerable to a whole new problem. A subsequent modification also erases his wife from history. He spends over a century trying to put things right, never satisfied no matter how close he gets. (Also provides a handy Reset Button: evidently, destroying his ship undoes all his Retcons, and Ramming Always Works).
And then there's the question of currency, specifically whether the Federation uses any during the 23rd century. There is at least one mention of a crewmember "earning their pay" in a TOS episode, though that might have only been a colloquialism Kirk was using. In "The Trouble with Tribbles", we see what clearly looks like trade with a human salesman - it's hard to imagine that guy was just in the business of giving away these critters for free. Then by The Voyage Home Kirk has a quote about people in the 20th century "still using money", implying that they don't anymore. You might think that they stopped using money at some point between TOS and the fourth movie, but the tone and reactions in the scene seem to indicate the Enterprise crew is completely unfamiliar with the concept of currency - so the change wouldn't have occurred in their lifetime. And then, a later movie has McCoy snark that he'd give "real money" to have the movie's villain stop talking, possibly indicating that McCoy - generally shown to be an older, more curmudgeonly figure than Kirk - witnessed the changeover while Kirk had missed it. And of course, by the TNG era, they beat us over the head with the fact that the Federation doesn't use money anymore (except for outside trades with other species, especially the Ferengi). Enterprise seems to hint that currency was abandoned when the Federation was first formed, a few years after the end of that series, but it's very vague about it. And then, to add further confusion, the 2009 movie has a scene that takes place in a bar, on Earth, that clearly seems to operate on capitalistic principles (plus the Nokia phone in Kirk's uncle's car). Now, that movie takes place in an alternate timeline, but since the two timelines diverged on the day of Kirk's birth, it would mean that even in the original one, currency was still legal tender at least until that day. To sum it up, it seems like we're now just meant to vaguely accept that they've phased money out by the 24th century without asking too many questions about how they did it or the precise moment when they did.
Trills make their first appearance in an episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation ("The Host"). Here, the symbiont clearly has total control over the host body and considers transporters to be harmful. In Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, the makeup is completely different (mainly because they didn't want to ruin Terry Farrell's looks with a rubber forehead), the host and symbiont create a combined personality, and use of transporters does not appear to be an issue. Additionally, Trills are virtually unheard of in their introductory episode, making The Reveal of Odan's true nature a surprise, while in DS9 they're indicated to have been a known quality for ages, with Sisko having been mentored by Curzon Dax, and Jadzia Dax remembering a sexual encounter with Dr McCoy.
In "Space Seed", the Eugenics Wars (set during the 1990s) was mentioned by Spock to be in the "era of your last so called World War". In the Next Generation era, World War III is said to happen at least five decades later. Additionally, author Greg Cox, who wrote several Trek novels set during the Eugenics Wars era, observed that the passage of the real 1990s necessitated reimagining the Eugenics Wars as a less overt conflict that happened around real life events and may not have been known to the general public. The episode where the Voyager crew visited The '90s did not depict an Earth embroiled in a world wide conflict with genetic supermen. Cox also humorously noted (in one of the DVD extras in Wrath of Khan) that Khan didn't exactly appear on the cover of Time Magazine.
The use of phasers. In the original TOS pilot "The Cage", the Enterprise crew is using lasers. All subsequent episodes use phasers, and a TNG episode scoffs at the idea of lasers being a threat to the Enterprise-D. In another episode, Worf tells a time traveler that the 22nd century didn't have phasers. Then along comes ENT, set in the 22nd century, and suddenly we have phase-pistols, phase-rifles, and phase-cannons. Despite the slightly-different names, they're exactly the same as 24th century phasers, just weaker and with fewer settings.
St. Elsewhere:
In "Breathless", Dr. Auschlander mentions that St. Eligius was founded in 1932. He then asks Dr. Westphall if he ever met the hospital's founder Father Joseph McCabe. Westphall says that he never did. The two-part story "Time Heals" establishes that the hospital was founded in 1935 and that Father McCabe had not only known Westphall as a child but was a mentor to him during his troubled teens.
In "Give the Boy a Hand", the artist Alex Corey tells Dr. Auschlander that Father McCabe died while his father was painting his portrait years earlier. In "Where There's Hope, There's Crosby", it is revealed that the 90-year-old McCabe is still alive but he is paralyzed as a result of ALS when he returns to St. Eligius after spending the last 30 years among the Hopi tribe in Arizona.
Supernatural:
Trickster secretly being the Archangel Gabriel. At the time of his creation in the second season, angels weren't even planned to appear in the show -That decision was made during the third season, due to the Writer's Strike cutting the season short. Then in the fifth season they're revealed to have been the same being all along.
The cure for vampirism. In the earlier seasons it was explicitly stated that there was no cure, but season 6 introduced one anyway. They try to Handwave it by stating the Campbells were keeping it secret, but this is flimsy at best -Wouldn't the logical thing to do be to spread knowledge of the cure to as many hunters as possible, so that more victims of vampires could be saved?
The cure for lycanthropy. In season 2, an entire episode was dedicated to the boys trying to find and stop a werewolf and eventually having to kill a girl Sam had feelings for because they could not find a cure for her. In season 12, Claire, a friend of the Winchesters is bitten and they are able to save her with a little known cure from the Men of Letters using some unknown chemical and the blood of the siring werewolf. Claire is saved. It's handwaved as she was saveable because she hadn't fully transformed and there hadn't been a full moon yet.
In season 8, we learn that hunters were intended to have a scholarly counterpart, the Men of Letters, that handled the research, but that the American chapters had been so thoroughly wiped out, no living hunter had ever heard of them. Dean and Sam, hunters, actually should have been Men of Letters, but their grandfather was was sucked into the future where he was killed before he could tell John about his legacy. This retcon was further expanded when the British chapter arrived in America to fix what the American hunters have broken... six years after the Apocalypse. They knew the American hunters were grossly outnumbered and relied on a very loose network of trial-and-error information that would be hugely helped by the arrival of a highly organized society steeped in lore and knowledge, but they chose not to intervene from the 1960s all the way to 2016. Their excuse? They didn't want to meddle in American affairs.
Super Sentai Does this to its own canon on occasion, both within series and externally.
Originally, Himitsu Sentai Goranger and J.A.K.Q. Dengekitai were not part of the Super Sentai canon that was established with Battle Fever J and made notable when Kousoku Sentai Turboranger was stated as the eleventh team in theri beginning-of-series crossover event and that there were ten before them with Battle Fever J being the first. However, when Chouriki Sentai Oh Ranger was labeled at the 19th and not the 17th when the series was introduced, it meant that Goranger and J.A.K.Q. were put back in retroactively. In Explaination, Toei has explained they were not Legally able to count Goranger and JAKQ as part of the greater Sentai canon due to the nature of who was responsible for and involved in production; Goranger and JAKQ under Shotaro Ishinomori and his company; whereas Battle Fever J, Denjiman and Sun Vulcan following it had limited partnership and invovlement with Marvel Comics. But they were able to clear up such licensing issues in the 90's due to Shotaro Ishinomori's Terminal cancer having him Give Toei the rights to all of the things he produced with them, thus were able to finally back-include them.
Each Sentai series are considered standalone series; not out of canon with each-other, but not being reliant on other's continuity for major events they may conflict with. Which when they started doing the 'vs' crossover movies rubbed people the wrong way, as several of them are impossible due to each show's own canon. While Kaizoku Sentai Gokaiger was clarified that all Sentai series existed in the same world, it merely reinforced statements made in every multi-team crossover to begin with which went back to Turboranger at the beginning of the 90's. Meaning all the reasons why the various crossover films couldn't work because of conflicting canon were simply continuity errors to begin with. And since EVERY movie Toei makes has continuity errors with regards to the relevant TV series it's a movie of. This also clarifies and retroactively makes the World of Shinkenger in Kamen Rider Decade the World of Super Sentai.
Choujin Sentai Jetman starts off by announcing it occurs in the year 199X. Cut to two episodes later, and you see calendars announcing it's the year 1991.
Chouriki Sentai Oh Ranger starts off the first episode as announcing the year it occurs in is 1999. Cut to the middle of the series, and it's shown to be occurring in 1995, more to fit it in better with how Sentai series tend to be successive canon to each other; and Toei treats the series in all later media as occurring in 1995 (and at its end early 1996). Apparently no-one told Shout Factory, as it's part of their descriptive blurb about the show on their DVD box set.
That '70s Show does this with a very early character, Donna's younger sister Tina. She appears in just one scene of one episode (Season 1 Episode 5) and is never heard from again. She is mentioned just once afterward in Season 2 Episode 6, in a joking Lampshadeing at the end by a soap- (or, more specifically, Soap-) style announcer: "And whatever happened to Midge's daughter Tina? [...] Confused? You won't be, after the next episode of That '70s Show!"
The Office (US) has one with Andy Bernard. In one episode he introduces his parents as "Andrew and Ellen Bernard" after proposing to Angela. In subsequent episodes their names are Walter and Ellen Bernard, with Andy having a younger brother named Walter Jr. Andy also states that he was originally named Walter Jr, but his parents later gave that name to his brother who they thought to be more deserving of it, and renamed him Andrew."
The West Wing In s3e5 "On The Day Before", President Bartlett vetoes the repeal of the 'death tax'. This is made up to be a huge deal, as it is an election year, and you don't support a tax in an election year, but it is considered 'shooting the moon', as the veto is supposed to be something that Bartlett has never done before. However, in s2e4 "In This White House", during Ainsely and Sam's debate on Capital Beat, it is mentioned by Mark Godfreed that Bartlett vetoed the Republican education package.
Wizards of Waverly Place had the episode "Alex's Logo", where Mr. Laritate has mysteriously forgotten that Ms. Majorheely "texted in her resignation". This is due to actor David Henrie writing the episode, but that doesn't justify the error. The majority of fans have already shunned this episode from canon anyway, not without reason.
The Worst Witch:
Season 2 retcons there being a Miss Gimlett who taught at the school - but abruptly leaves at the start of term. This teacher had never been seen, nor referenced in Season 1.
Charlie Blossom's second episode implies that he's related to Frank the caretaker through his sister. Season 3 adds his father Ted - and Frank's brother - as a character. But since Charlie's last name was Blossom already, the first one appears to be the goof.

Retcon / Video Games
.hack:
.hack//Link, .hack//Quantum, and "The Thanatos Report" (an OVA included in the Blu-ray for the .hack movie beyond the world) make it so that everything that has happened in the franchise was not the result of big business abusing technologies that have advanced past the point of their understanding as the world reached the technological event horizon and true Artificial Intelligence began to develop, but a deeply-entrenched conspiracy from the 1980's concerning an ecological terrorist organizations' efforts to digitize the entirety of humanity so as to keep the world from being destroyed in a thousand years due to human abuse and destruction of the ecosystem...which they cite as being caused by technological advancement.
Forgetting entirely that the ecosystem is not the planet, their plan would end up killing everyone as with everyone in virtual reality there'd be no-one to maintain the servers everyone's trapped in (and the franchise had long-established that if the servers go down, everyone trapped within them dies), doing this would prevent any technological advancement which would mediate such ecological destruction (or planetary colonization efforts), and several other significant past plot points; the least of which being the nature of how Aura—who this plan all hinged upon to work—was created to be a testament of the love her programmer held for a woman he never got to be with...that those entry's retcon as being one of the inner-circle. And the belief of 'we'll destroy the world with technological progress' has been debunked since the 80's, and said damage has actually steeply declined in that time.
The first few .hack// games avoided this by being a direct sequel to the anime .hack//SIGN; on the other hand, Roots contradict various aspects of the G.U. games (both were released about the same time, but when Roots reenacted some of G.U.'s scenes, the first game was already available for months). The most jarring ones:
Shino's death scene (in this case, the retcon was caused by the games). While the scene is essentially the same in both versions, some minor details were changed to contribute to the drama of Alkaid's death scene in the games. Shino got lines when in the anime she didn't say anything, among other changes (such as Haseo not calling her on her phone). Shino's outfit coloring also suffered, as in some of the game's flashbacks it would be black (that is, post-Ovan-disappearance) when, according to the plot, it should be white.
Ace Attorney:
It was rumoured amongst characters in the original first game that prosecutor Miles Edgeworth was so hellbent on always getting a guilty verdict that he sometimes faked evidence. However, according to case added in the DS remake, Edgeworth never faked any evidence, and only unknowingly presented forged evidence once. Some fans did not take kindly to this, claiming it rendered a good portion of Edgeworth's Character Development in the first game moot.
In case 2 of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, Maya Fey very clearly states that she lives independently and doesn't have any family. Then, in case 2 of Justice for All, we see that she lives together with Morgan and Pearl, her aunt and cousin, in Fey manor. That said, in that same case Maya said that she tends to exaggerate a little, so this might be the explanation of this plothole.
Spark Brushel says in Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney that Apollo's father "died in an accident on stage". Two games later, in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney – Spirit of Justice, Apollo (and the player) learns that his father actually was killed in an arson while performing in the Khura'in royal family's residence. This retcon served the purpose of allowing Apollo to prove the killer's guilt in "Turnabout Revolution" because his father saw the killer's hand, which allowed to identify her.
Both Aliens: Colonial Marines and Alien: Isolation did this for the first two films of the Alien franchise.
Colonial Marines claims that chestbursters create a parasitic pseudo-womb inside their hosts whilst they gestate, ensuring that if they are surgically removed before birth, it will kill the host.
Colonial Marines reveals Hicks survived instead of dying of in Film Alien 3 and that the engineer Michael Ripley meets in that film is actually CEO Michael Weyland.
Isolation explains that the colony on LV-426 never found the alien vessel because scavengers got there decades ago and switched off the signal so nobody else would ever find it, planning on keeping the riches for finding it to themselves.
For the first time in the series, Animal Crossing: New Leaf introduced two new villager personality types, Smug (for males) and Uchi (for females). While most of the villagers with these personality types were created for New Leaf, some villagers from previous games got changed, like Charlise (Peppy → Uchi) and Kidd (Lazy → Smug). A small few island villagers from the first game also had their personalities changed when they were introduced as regular villagers in later games, such as Rowan (Cranky → Jock).
The first Assassin's Creed game was released in 2007 but is set in 2012. Several e-mails can be read which tell of things such as Hollywood having closed and most of Africa's population having died out. But in Assassin's Creed III, the series caught up with 2012, and every subsequent game has been set in its year of release, so those e-mails have been retconned to have been propaganda to Abstergo Employees by the hacker group Erudito.
In Backyard Skateboarding, the playable characters have allegedly never heard of several neighborhood kids. This would fit in continuity for Andy MacDonald, but not for the Backyard Kids because they played in the same league as them for a few years! In MANY different sports! (It may be that Skateboarding is supposed to be from Andy MacDonald's perspective, with the others as just playable.)
The Batman: Arkham Series originally had several character backstories and designs that have been overwritten by the time of Batman: Arkham Knight, by both the original developers and WB Games Montreal. A notable Rocksteady example is Hush, who is said to have been defeated in Asylum, yet Batman meets him for the first time in City. Most people who aren't against their rewrites often note that Asylum wasn't originally going to have a sequel, so most of the backstories were lifted straight from the comics.
Borderlands:
Handsome Jack being a puppeteer and behind the events of the first game were admitted by Anthony Burch to be a retcon and apparently was not intended for the series, however Handsome Jack turned out to be such a fantastic and well-made villain that Mr. Burch notes the retcon is something "fans are surprisingly forgiving of".
In the first game, Bloodwing is referred to as male. In the second, Bloodwing is referred to as female. The writers handwaved it away as a gender change inherent in the species.
The New-U stations of Borderlands 2 were eventually retconned into simply being a gameplay mechanic rather than an in-universe device after the fact that Handsome Jack would allow his greatest enemies to be resurrected as many times as possible was too much of a plot hole to ignore, with writer Anthony Burch regretting writing dialog for the stations simply by how it made things even more glaring.
Champions Online seems to be lampooning the trope: "Retcon" was their custom term for a respec, until some players got confused by it!
Guile, a character that the player can recruit in Chrono Cross, was actually meant to be Magus from the previous game. The developers said that they eliminated his backstory because of time constraints and because they didn't want any of the "secondary" characters to have more importance than the others, but evidence still exists that the two were originally meant to be the same person (they both hover instead of walking, have long white hair, and use Shadow magic; Guile's Japanese name, Alfador, is the same name that the child Magus gave to his cat in Chrono Trigger). Surprisingly, in the Updated Re-release of Chrono Trigger for the Nintendo DS, they retconned the whole story by having Magus lose all of his memories in a canonical ending, thus strongly implying that Guile is an amnesiac Magus.
The same thing can be said about Dalton. In Chrono Trigger he was a joke villain, but in one of the bonus dungeons of the DS version you can fight him and discover that he's planning to raise a huge army in Porre and destroy Guardia (Crono, Marle and Lucca's hometown). Of course, Chrono Cross tells us that Guardia has indeed fallen against Porre's army.
Dark Reign has an ingenious version of this: the first twelve missions are recreations of famous battles between the Freedom Guard and the Imperium. You choose which site to fight for, but the historical results of the battle will not necessarily match your victory. The final mission involves going back in time and retconning history itself by saving Togra and defeating both sides. Thus, the retcon is part of the plot.
In Darksiders, the Four Horseman of the Apocalypse were said to be older than both angels and demons, but in the second game, its established that they belong to a race spawned from angels and demons instead. The Chosen from the first game were also thought to be demons themselves, but its explained in the second game that they are far older and they were summoned from the Abyss to serve the Destroyer, rather than being natives to Hell.
In Dead or Alive, with Ryu, the star of Ninja Gaiden, already being an extremely popular character by the time DOA Dimensions is made, it seems Team Ninja really wanted Ryu’s role in the retelling for the first 4 DOA games to be expanded; originally Ryu’s only more prominent role was in DOA2 where he canonically killed Bankotsubo, the Tengu, Dimensions on the other hand has Ryu being very active in supporting Kasumi, Ayane and Hayate in all their ventures, even the ones in which Ryu was never mentioned to be a part of in the original games, to the point it seems the trio wouldn’t accomplish half of what they did without Ryu’s help.
Diablo
In the first game, dialoguenote  implies that the Player Character used to live in Tristram. In Diablo II, the hero of the first game is established as the one who became the Dark Wanderer, but now he's a nameless wanderer no-one in town knew. Diablo III establishes the Dark Wanderer's name is Aidan, and both Deckard Cain and the people of Tristram knew his identity, again. Aidan is King Leoric's eldest son and Albrecht's brother, despite Albrecht previously being the king's only son.
Diablo II establishes Diablo as one of the three Prime Evils, while Diablo III establishes Diablo as one of the seven Great Evils (a term already used for them in the first game, but not explained like this) from the seven heads of Tathamet, now known as the Prime Evil.
Certain plot developments in Dragon Age: Origins, particularly from the epilogue, were later undone or ignored to more easily meet the demands of the plots of its sequels, which were not being planned during the game's development. One notable example was the death of Harrowmont if he took the throne, since later subplots required the indirect involvement of Orzammar's king.
The sixth route of Duel Savior Destiny hastily claims at the end that Mia is Not Blood Related to Taiga as a saving throw to prevent 'real' incest. The final route, however, establishes firmly that they do have blood ties.
The Elder Scrolls
The Imperial Province (Cyrodiil) was said to originally be a Mayincatec-esque setting, with jungles, rivers, rice fields, tattoos, and stone cities. Later depictions transform it instead as a Fantasy Counterpart Culture of ancient Rome. This is justified as Tiber Septim, founder of the Third Cyrodiilic Empire, would use his powers post-apotheosis as the deity Talos to perform a Cosmic Retcon, transforming Cyrodiil into a temperate forest as a thanks to the Imperial Legions who served him so well in life. As shown in the prequel The Elder Scrolls Online, this change was retroactive, making it so Cyrodiil had always been a temperate forest, and that previous reports to the contrary were due to a "transcription error".
Until Morrowind, there is no mention of a race native to the Imperial Province, the province is a cosmopolitan mish-mash of all the other races, and the Imperial line is descended from the Nords. Morrowind introduces (and makes playable) the Imperial race, and retcons them as a descendant of the original Nede/Atmoran Caucasian race, from which the modern Nords, Bretons (via mix with elves) and Imperials are all descended. The retcon does maintain that the Emperor's family has more Nord blood than most Imperials.
Fallout
In Fallout 3, the bulky Plasma Rifle from Fallout 2 is replaced with a lighter and more traditionally rifle-shaped model. The Fallout 2 rifle returns in Fallout: New Vegas as "Plasma Caster", along with a justification in-universe.
Then Fallout 4 came with more truly lore-breaking changes, with... mixed reactions.
Many designs of various objects are updated with a more "retro" and colorful look, such as the Holotapes being partially made out of plastic, and Nuka-Cola bottles shaped like rockets. The latter is described in-universe as an actual update on the bottle design, although the lack of Nuka-Cola bottle with older design in-game make this a bit jarring.
The Vertibird VTOL is described as being developed and produced by the Enclave after the war. The Vertibird at least exist as a prototype pre-war. But in Fallout 4 Vertibird appears to have been in service during pre-war, you can even see them in the pre-war segment.
In Fallout 2, Jet is shown to be invented by Myron in New Reno out of Brahmin (a post-war mutant cow) dung, with it appearance in Fallout 3 even acknowledging its origin in New Reno. But in Fallout 4, Jet appears to have existed in pre-war America for some time, with several mentions of it being used by your pre-war neighbors.
In all previous Fallout games, the power armors are described to have been powered by a miniature nuclear reactor that allows it to perpetually operate for 200 years. In Fallout 4 they're powered by miniature fusion cells that last for about 30 minutes per cell, and this is not a case of Gameplay and Story Segregation. Fallout 4 takes place 10 years after Fallout 3 and New Vegas, which means it takes place 210 years after the Great War. The power sources are now expired and everyone is using the next best thing. However, power armor in Fallout 76, which takes place only 25 years after the bombs fell, also uses Fallout 4's fuel system.
How power armor appears throughout the series. In Fallout 1 and 2 they're depicted as bulky walking tank that towers over an average person. In Fallout 3 and New Vegas they appear no bulkier than average non-powered metal armor. Fallout 4 returns with the one-man tank look. Although this is less an example of a retcon and more Gameplay and Story Segregation due to engine limitations.
Final Fantasy:
Final Fantasy I: The tradition of adding a character named "Cid" in each Final Fantasy game began with Final Fantasy II. However, when the original game was remade for the GBA (followed by subsequent remakes), someone named Cid was inserted into its canon as the ancient creator of your party's airship. He is never seen and was only minorly mentioned by one of the townspeople of Lufenia. Surprisingly enough, he became a major character in Dissidia Final Fantasy as Cid of the Lufaine.
Final Fantasy VII has the "Compilation" cheerfully retconning quite a good deal of the original game's backstory, to the consternation of many fans and the relief of others. For a sample of the changes, take a deeeeeep breath: Crisis Core retcons bit-part Zack into a lovable hero, Aerith was likely in love with him before Cloud (in the original game, when Cloud asked if Zack and Aerith were "serious", Aerith replied, "No... but I liked him for a while") and received all much of her trademarks from him, Genesis orchestrated the Nibelheim incident (though it seems to have gotten far more out of hand than he intended), and Zack died fighting what looks like the entire Shinra army before passing on his memories to Cloud (a heroic passing-of-the-torch instead of an epic Mind Screw). Before Crisis forever cements the Turks as wisecracking antiheroes instead of villains, portrayed similarly in CC and AC, but on a larger scale with many members here, as well as adds a different incarnation of AVALANCHE that existed before Barrett founded his group, making them behind many events that occurred prior to the original game; Advent Children itself changes the personalities of many characters, but especially Cloud (considerably more mopey) and Vincent (considerably less mopey); and Dirge of Cerberus retconned considerable amounts of Vincent's backstory, making HIM more mopey, and added an entire army of subterranean Super Soldiers to the canon where there were none before).
Cloud being considerably more mopey in Advent Children is explained in a blink-and-you'll-miss-it-moment: The Geostigma that infects people doesn't just hurt them, it also fills them with doubt and angst and other bad emotions. Naturally, Cloud is able to resist it long enough to maintain his Badass-edness, but it isn't until his stigma is cured that he actually stops being mopey and truly becomes his Badass Super Soldier self.
Interestingly, some of the retcon in the compilation has already been hit by the Reset Button, as aspects of the Nibelheim Incident changed in the anime short Last Order were retconned in Crisis Core to be more similar to the original game's events.
In Five Nights at Freddy's 2, one of the lore minigames seen occasionally after death shows a child being murdered just outside the restaurant, followed by a jump scare by the Puppet. During that game, a robotic sounding voice can be heard spelling the words "Save Him". In the Good Ending of Freddy Fazbear's Pizzeria Simulator, there is a flashback to this scene as Cassette Man talks to his daughter, meaning that the child that was murdered then and whose soul possesses the Puppet was a girl.
Halo:
From the first game we are given: "You are the Master Chief, born for battle, bred for war, you are the last of Spartan-II project. Your brethren have died". The novel Halo: First Strike then reveals that a number of other Spartan-IIs survived. In fact, there was another Spartan alongside you on the Pillar of Autumn, though she was stuck in a cryopod due to her injuries. Even then, she was supposed to be dead, but First Strike changed that to clinically dead, and had her resuscitated through complex surgery. However, the games never referenced any of this until 343 Industries took over the franchise from Bungie.
2010's Halo: Reach retconned several details of the eponymous planet's fall as depicted in 2001's Halo: The Fall of Reach. In the original novel, the Pillar of Autumn was about to leave the system when the Covenant initiate their attack on August 30, 2552. The ship then spends the entire battle duking it out with the Covies, which ends with the latter successfully wiping out almost all of Reach's defenders in less than a day. After the Autumn is forced to flee the system, Cortana uses data from a Forerunner crystal to plot a course to Halo. The first game's plot follows. Halo Reach, meanwhile, has the battle for Reach lasting much longer, with the Covenant raiding the planet as early as July 24, and forces from their main fleet arriving almost a month later on August 14. The Pillar of Autumn even manages to find time to land on the planet on August 30, just before it evacuates the system, in order to retrieve a fragment of Cortana from Noble Team. Cortana then plots a course to Halo based not just on the Forerunner crystal, but with data gathered from Reach's own Forerunner artifact. Cue massive Fan Wank that has continued to persist despite 343i making multiple subsequent efforts to reconcile the timeline discrepancies.
The earlier Halo novels stated that the Elites, Hunters, and Brutes were not encountered by humanity until the last year of the Human-Covenant war. This was contradicted by so many other sources that the 2010/2011 reprints of said novels retconned away any mention of them being newly encountered species, because by this point they had shifted into the opposite situation, where their lack of presence in the first game was Early Installment Weirdness.
In general, Bungie and 343i's official policy on canon, beyond the hierarchy of what takes precedence (e.g. statements directly from the developers have higher priority on canon than supplementary material like the manual for a game), is that in the case of discrepancies, newer content takes precedence over older, meaning retcons are standard when it comes to revisiting events.
The G-Man is called "Administrator" in Half-Life 1's script, implying he was the one overseeing experiments at Black Mesa and a literal government agent. Half-Life 2 establishes that Wallace Breen was the administrator of Black Mesa, and while little is known about the G-Man, he appears to be of extraterrestrial origin.
Some (minor and easily Handwaved details) from the first Jak and Daxter game don't exactly mesh with revelations made in the later games.
Kingdom Hearts:
The first Kingdom Hearts defines the Heartless as "those without hearts": when a person succumbed to the darkness in their heart, the darkness consumed it entirely, leaving them with no heart, thus, a Heartless. However, starting in Final Mix, the explanation is reversed: the Heartless is the heart, and the empty shell of the body becomes a Nobody. Additional information introduced in subsequent games only serves to make the whole thing even more confusing.
The adventure Sora and friends had at Disney Castle in Kingdom Hearts II. Donald and Goofy wonder what Heartless are doing in the castle. Queen Minnie escorts Sora to a hidden chamber below the throne and talks about the Cornerstone of Light. Maleficent sort of appears to them. Due to her meddling with the past, she can barely be in the castle until Pete destroys it. Sora and friends go through a magic doorway to the world of Timeless River and prevent Present Pete from breaking it with the help of Past Pete. So now Maleficent and her forces can't enter the castle in the Present, right? WRONG!!! By Kingdom Hearts coded and Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance, this was COMPLETELY forgotten. We see her and Pete holding the queen hostage, threatening to harm her unless they give her Jiminy Cricket's Journal.
In the original game, Ansem, the leader of Hollow Bastion, was said to be a once-benevolent king who became obsessed with the study of darkness and was eventually consumed by it. In the second game, however, we discover that the person everyone thought was Ansem was actually his apprentice, Xehanort, who had deposed Ansem and stolen his name, and that the real Ansem remained a good guy (for the most part). Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance makes it even MORE screwey! The first Xehanort we ever saw, "Ansem", went back in time and made his past self evil to start with, and the entire nature of Xehanort's past plans have changed as to be more interconnected, with his big plan involving creating thirteen versions of himself, through both time travel and infusing his heart into other peoples' hearts.
In the first game, Riku states that Kairi coming to Destiny Islands is the reason he knows there are other worlds. However, we find out in Kingdom Hearts: Birth by Sleep that Terra meets Riku, who seems to know he's not from around there. This was apparently before Kairi ended up on the island, but Riku still appears to know that there are other worlds. About the only way this might make sense is that while Riku suspected there were other worlds when Terra arrived, it was only when Kairi arrived that he was completely sure of it.
Left 4 Dead went through this a few times. During the development of the game, each campaign was supposed to continue in sequence in the storyline, but play testers complained that they felt it was too much of a downer to see the survivors get rescued and wind up having it fail, starting the next campaign. Valve then made it where each campaign is a separate story. Fans then started to complain that the campaigns felt too out of place, so Valve made the Crash Course campaign that tied in between No Mercy and Death Toll. Possibly due to Fan Wank, Valve made the sequel have the campaigns be all connected in sequence and it was met with positive reaction. In response to this, The Sacrifice comic goes to state that the survivors from the first game have, in fact, gone through several rescues in each campaign one by one (No Mercy, Death Toll, Dead Air, and then Blood Harvest).
The Legacy of Kain series pulls an interesting in-game example: at the end of Soul Reaver 2, when Kain changes the timeline by pulling the Reaver out of Raziel, the timeline itself retcons Blood Omen 2 and parts of Defiance into existence to prevent time from being destroyed.
The Legend of Zelda:
In The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past there was mention of Seven Wise Men who sealed Ganon in the Sacred Realm. After the release of the prequel game The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, the Game Boy Advance Polished Port of ALttP retcons them as just "The Seven Sages" due to five of them being female. And then later still the Hyrule Historia was released and retconned Ocarina of Time and the "Sealing War" in the backstory of Link to the Past as seperate events.
The The Legend of Zelda: Oracle Games were originally unrelated to previous games. It features a Link that looks a lot like the A Link to the Past Link, but he looks decidedly younger than the ALTTP Link. Even more noticeable, Zelda has a completely different design and hair colour. Still, Hyrule Historia confirms that they're the same characters.
The manual for A Link to the Past states that the Master Sword was created after Ganondorf obtained the Triforce. The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword retcons this by having the Master Sword's origins come from that game and being passed down in every other game since.
In The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, it's stated that the Golden Goddesses created only Hyrule. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess expands this by showing that they created the world itself.
In Mass Effect, Saren's hatred for humans was said to be the result of his brother Desolus getting killed during the First Contact War. This was contradicted by the later comic miniseries Evolution, in which it's revealed that Saren himself killed Desolus, because his brother was a General Ripper who intended to turn the entire turian population into monsters in order to re-fight the war. It's worth noting that the comic book miniseries was written by Mac Walters, whereas the original game was written by Drew Karpyshyn, though Mac Walters was also a part of the writing team.
Mega Man Powered Up retconned two robot masters, Time Man and Oil Man, into the original batch of robots created by Dr. Light, in order to bring the total amount of first-generation bosses to 8, much like the other games in the series.
In Mega Man X6, Capcom retconned Zero's death in X5, shoehorning him into the plot (if you found and defeated a Nightmare Zero).
The Metal Gear series tends to have each new installment retcon at least one more-or-less significant plot detail from the previous game, to a degree where it is also as big a stable of the series as the cardboard box.
Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater made a few changes to Big Boss' initially established back-story from previous games. Originally, Big Boss was stated to be born around the 1920's, meaning that he was in his 50's when Solid Snake was born during the 1970's and over 70 when Solid Snake (supposedly) killed him in Metal Gear 2, which was set in 1999. However, he's only 29 in Metal Gear Solid 3, which is set in 1964, meaning that he was de-aged by roughly ten years. Likewise, Big Boss' bio in the Metal Gear 2 manual stated Big Boss lost his eye during the 1980's, a few decades later from the events of Metal Gear Solid 3 (where Big Boss loses said eye during an interrogation session).
A line of dialogue in Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker places Big Boss's age at 39 years old in 1974, which is jarring when you consider that Les Enfants Terribles occurred only two years earlier according to Liquid's dialogue in Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty:
Liquid: The price of physical prodigy... Few more years and you’ll be another dead clone of the old man. Our raw materials are vintage, brother. Big Boss was in his late fifties when they created his copies.
The eponymous walking nuclear tank itself has had its history changed as well. The TX-55 Metal Gear from the first MSX game was originally the first of its kind, until later prequels revealed that there were at least three models before it (the ICBMG from Portable Ops, Metal Gear Zeke from Peace Walker and Sahelanthropus from The Phantom Pain).
Gray Fox's back-story was also heavily retconned in MPO. In MG2, Gray Fox reveals during his death scene that he was a half-white war orphan from Vietnam who was adopted by Big Boss after the war was over (which would have been after 1975) and later served Renamo (the Mozambican National Resistance) during the Mozambican Civil War. In MPO, we find out he was a German-speaking child soldier from Mozambique who fought for the Frelimo (who were the enemies of the real life Renamo) in 1966 (four years before MPO and nine years before the Vietnam War ended). The Metal Gear Solid 4 Database doesn't even mention Gray Fox's time in Vietnam, nor his time serving Renamo.
The identities of the Patriots have been changed multiple times since the first mention of the organization. In MGS2 they were suggested to be both an Illuminati-like secret council composed mainly of twelve members known as the Wisemen's Committee. The timeline in the ending of MGS3 stated that the Patriots were actually the US branch of the Philosophers, which was the real Illuminati-like organization. But then MGS4 established that was really a cover for their true origins (MPO having previously revealed that the US Philosophers were murdered by Ocelot under orders from Zero) as a different group founded by Big Boss and his team from MGS3 as a sort of continuation of the Philosophers, which Big Boss left over a dispute with Zero, and which Zero passed on to a group of AIs; and that furthermore, Donald Anderson from MGS1 was really Sigint, and Dr. Clark (who revived Gray Fox as a cyborg) was Para-Medic, and that their "accidental" deaths (Anderson's from being tortured by Ocelot, Clark's from Fox's rampage) had been orchestrated by Eva and Ocelot from the get-go as part of their plan to destroy the Patriots and rescue Big Boss. And the really weird thing is, after playing all the games all of the above will make perfect sense.
A lot of the plotpoints from Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake were retconned as early as Metal Gear Solid. For instance, Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake heavily implies in both its intro and the instruction manual that the entire world was actually disarming its nukes and the only intact nukes were procured by Zanzibar Land by raiding nuclear outposts. However, Metal Gear Solid retcons this by exposing that more than 20,000 nukes still exist in the world either by 1998 or 2003, despite their goal being to get rid of them by 2001 or 2007, as well as the fact that they were creating nukes, and that START II, which was stated to have not only been ratified, but also implemented long before the events of Metal Gear 2, was mentioned to have not even been ratified yet by the time of Metal Gear Solid. There's also the infamous moment where the Colonel and Snake discuss Big Boss stating, or at the very least implying that he is Snake's father in Zanzibar Land, despite no such thing was mentioned during Snake and Big Boss' confrontation in Metal Gear 2.
Venom Snake's existence is one big retcon. It is revealed in Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain that Venom Snake is the Big Boss that Solid Snake kills in Metal Gear and the Big Boss in Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake is the original one (Naked Snake). This contradicts the explanation given for Big Boss's survival in Metal Gear 2, which suggests that the same Big Boss did fought Snake in the first game and only survived his injuries with cyborg implants (which was accepted as canon in the Metal Gear Solid 4 Database).
You might even consider Zero as a retcon. It was implied that Zero become bitter towards Big Boss for leaving the Patriots and he eventually went crazy but Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain reveals the exact opposite. Zero was not only not bitter, but he desperately wanted Big Boss back and seemed regretful for driving Big Boss away. One of his last moments before becoming vegetative was visiting Big Boss while he's in his coma and expressing his regrets. Also while he did go overboard with the whole control thing he was certainly not crazy.
Otacon's bio in Metal Gear Solid said he was in his 30s, and his physical appearance in all his games is consistent with this, meaning he looks to be in his 40s in his final appearance in Metal Gear Solid 4. In Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker a timeline states he was born in 1980, making him only in his mid-20s in his first appearance, and only in his early 30s in his final one. Especially amusing when Raiden in Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance is pointing out that Otacon got "a lot more attractive" when he reached his 30s, when he looked stylish, but, for that age, pretty rough.
Metroid:
Metroid: Zero Mission, the remake of the first Metroid, contains a great many retcons to the original story, most along the lines of what happens to Samus after she defeats Mother Brain. However, things such as Kraid and Ridley getting massive growth spurts (to match their portrayals in later games) are clearly Re Write territory.
In Metroid Prime, there was a Chozo barrier around the Impact Crater, which stopped the Space Pirates from getting inside, where Metroid Prime (the creature) was. However, in the first US version of the game, Pirate logs indicate that they captured and studies the creature before it escaped. This was very quickly retconned when they realised it was impossible - in the normal English version and the Player's Choice versions of the games, the Pirate logs only say that they know there is a creature there, but they don't know what it is. But even in the non-US versions, the scan data of Metroid Prime says it has mechanical weapons, which (in the US version) it assimilated when the Space Pirates were experimenting on it. Either way, it's still a Plot Hole.
Metroid: Other M has some scenes that people have cited as being rather continuity breaking;
The biggest one seems to be the infamous PTSD scene where Ridley appears in front of Samus, which makes the heroine scared stiff while we briefly see her as a little girl just as scared of him before he begins carrying her to her would be death. The scene is actually lifting a plot point from a then non-canon manga which mentioned that Samus' parents were killed by Ridley. Because this plot point was not introduced until the manga, and because the manga was not released until after the release of Zero Mission, we're left to wonder why Ridley's presence never did this to Samus to begin with, and why after numerous encounters with him, is she still scared of him.
The mechanic of Samus not using any of her weapons or skills until Adam approves of it annoyed many players, especially when she doesn't activate her Varia Suit in an area of the Bottle Ship that has an extreme temperature risk. Although it was only a way for Nintendo to explain off her not being able to access the power (and for Nintendo to prevent people from sequence breaking the game, something that they have been trying to curtail since they saw how extreme people got with Super Metroid), it was odd that Samus was only now deciding to obey someone. This and many other issues with the story were actually brought up in the next game of the chronological order, Metroid Fusion: The AI actually brings up Samus' willingness to follow Adam's orders to the letter, even if it means certain death for her, as if the AI was puzzled at how obedient she was to him.
Then there's the whole thing with Adam apparently being "the only father figure [Samus] had ever known," seemingly retconning Samus' entire Happily Adopted relationship with the aliens who raised her.
Herman Toothrot is a loony eccentric in the first two Monkey Island games. In subsequent games he is inexplicably identified as the grandfather of Guybrush's love interest Elaine Marley. This contradicts a large chunk of the established story, and much shoehorning has to be made.
Mortal Kombat
Raiden's story in the first Mortal Kombat was much more self-serving, as he had been invited by Shang Tsung to compete and does so in order to prove mortals are puny when matched with a god. His ending from that game has him overthrow the tournament and turn it into a showcase of the gods (that eventually destroy the world). Later games throw this characterization out the window and instead portray him as a concerned protector who feels he must participate in order to avert disaster (as this happens after the first movie also changed the entire story of the first game).
Likewise, Scorpion was described in the first game as donning a yellow version of the Lin Kuei uniform in undeath as a Take That!, essentially calling Sub-Zero a coward. Mortal Kombat Mythologies: Sub-Zero shows the still-living Hanzo Hasashi (Scorpion's former identity) wearing the same costume, which is now depicted as the uniform of the Shirai-Ryu clan, rivals to the Lin-Kuei.
Kabal from Mortal Kombat 3 was given the same treatment. The third game presented him as a reformed gangster seeking revenge for the deaths of his comrades and his ending states that he devotes himself to fighting injustice. Fast-forward to Mortal Kombat: Deception, and not only has Kabal returned to his criminal lifestyle, but he's one of the antagonists in the game.
Sindel has a surprisingly egregious one in Mortal Kombat 11. The original timeline featured her as a combo between Anti-Villain and Tragic Villain who had ruled the realm of Edenia until Overarching Villain Shao Kahn invaded; killing her husband Jerrod, enslaving her subjects, and forcing Sindel into Unholy Matrimony. Sindel had taken her life thereafter until her revival in a Brainwashed and Crazy state. It was thanks to her daughter, Kitana, that Sindel went through a Heel–Face Turn by the time of Mortal Kombat: Deception. 11 introduces a major twist in Sindel's arcade ending: in that it was all lies. In the rebooted timeline, Sindel betrayed Jerrod to keep her position as queen, immediately relishing in the wealth and power she received through Shao Kahn's rule - until Quan Chi killed her and framed it as a suicide. This led to a major backlash from fans, finding the retcon to be outright disrespectful to the original Dark Is Not Evil portrayal of the character.
Myst series: In the first two games, prison books trapped people in "the dark void of the Link" between Ages. Myst IV: Revelation changed the entire concept of trap books by turning them into prison ages instead and having Sirrus and Achenar return. It also re-introduced Yeesha, who later on in Uru: Ages Beyond Myst and even Myst V: End of Ages bent so many of the rules of Writing Ages that she practically threw both canon and fanon out the window. At least Uru acknowledged that what Yeesha could do was out of the ordinary ("I could write things they never thought possible"). Myst IV on the other hand, seemed to act as if the prison books had always been that way which just doesn't make sense. In fact, Uru (and later Myst V) attempted to explain away all the "inconsistencies" of the first four games in a rather interesting way — they are, by Uru canon, JUST VIDEO GAMES. Yeah, it makes sense, but still seems like a slap in the face to some fans of the first (and arguably best) games.
Pokémon:
In Pokémon Red and Blue and Yellow (but not FireRed and LeafGreen), Giovanni vowed to make amends for his actions, feeling he betrayed his followers and renouncing Team Rocket for good. However, an event in HeartGold and SoulSilver reveals that Giovanni had in fact planned for Team Rocket to be revived, that he wasn't truly remorseful for betraying them, and the only reason he left was to get stronger.
In Gold and Silver, Steel- and Dark-types were stated to be new types. This was omitted in the remakes, owing to the fact that the previous games, even FireRed and LeafGreen, also had Steel- and Dark-types. Subverted later as the originals and remakes are in separate universes.
Also, Steel was retroactively added to Magnemite and Magneton, which were pure Electric-types in the first generation, completely changing their type matchups. Similarly, Pokémon X and Y added the Fairy type, which was also retconned onto a number of older Pokémon, with a few (specifically, the Clefairy, Togepi, and Snubbull families) actually losing their former Normal types entirely.
Rotom's alternate forms also had type retcons. In Platinum, all of its forms shared the original's Electric/Ghost typing, but learned moves of other types relating to the appliance it was possessing. Starting in Black and White, the Ghost type for the alternate forms was replaced with the same type of the move that form learns.
Both times new types were added, other types gained and lost weaknesses unrelated to the new types as well, such as Steel losing its resistances to Dark and Ghost in the sixth gen when Fairy was introduced.
Some of the breeding mechanics amounted to retcons as well. Several species that once only bred more of their own kind were explained to not have been able to produce their pre-evolutions earlier due to not having the proper held incense. The families of Wobbuffet, Mr. Mime, Azumarill, Chingling, Snorlax, Mantine, Sudowoodo, Roserade, and Blissey are all part of this. They'll produce the middle or highest member of their line, depending on the species, when bred without the proper incense, and the baby member of the line only when bred while holding said incense.
Keldeo knowing its signature move Secret Sword causes it to automatically change into its Resolute Form until the move is forgotten. However, as this form was only introduced in B2W2, it can know Secret Sword in the original BW while remaining in its Ordinary Form.
They also retconned in some evolution methods; while most evolutions of older Pokémon use either a game mechanic or an item that wasn't available in previous games, Pokémon Diamond and Pearl gave Lickitung the ability to evolve if it's leveled up with Rollout in its moveset, and Yanma and Piloswine gained similar evolutions with AncientPower. However, Lickitung could learn the move via TM in the second generation or tutor in the third, and you can breed AncientPower onto a Piloswine in any generation.
Pokémon X and Y establishes the Mega Evolution mechanic, which is explained in the story that Korinna's ancestors found the original Key Stone and trained a Lucario who became the first known Pokémon to ever mega evolve. Key Stones themselves were so rare that only a handful of characters ever obtain one. Come Omega Ruby & Alpha Sapphire, and Key Stones are fairly common in the Hoenn region. Sootopolis City is no longer an extinct volcano, but the crash site of an ancient meteor. The postgame content "Delta Episode" focuses entirely around the ancient legends of Rayquaza and said ancient meteor being the true origins of Mega Evolution. This works out because X & Y mostly treats the origins of Mega Evolution as a local regional legend, while Alpha/Omega introduces a character who's lifelong purpose is to pass down the true history.
The Delta Episode of the Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire remake has the new character Zinnia reveal the Many Worlds Interpretation to be a real part of the Pokémon universe, serving as an in-game explanation for all of the previously unexplained retcons that have occurred in the game series. Pokémon Sun and Moon and especially Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon took this and ran with it.
Originally in Pokémon Gold and Silver, no one had ever seen a Pokémon egg before until the protagonist is given one, which seems remarkably odd given how widespread they are in future games. In the remakes, Professor Elm doesn't react with surprise to being given the egg because Pokémon eggs are commonplace and well-known. Like many other retcons, this was subverted with the reveal of alternate universes.
Portal 2 changes much of the backstory of Cave Johnson and Aperture Science from the history on ApertureScience.com released at the time of the original Portal. Instead of dying as a result of mercury poisoning, he now became sick as a result of ingesting Conversion Gel. In the old story, he proposed the idea for the portal gun while he was on his death bed. However, in Portal 2, all of the test chambers in the original levels of the facility require the use of a portal gun, even the ones that were constructed when Johnson was still young. The location of the Enrichment Center is also changed from Cleveland, Ohio to Michigan's Upper Peninsula.
The Paradise Lost DLC for Postal 2 retcons the events of Postal III as being All Just a Dream the Postal Dude was having during a coma.
Resident Evil:
Albert Wesker in the original Resident Evil was a stock horror film character, the obligatory traitor who gets killed at the end. Realizing that the series was in need of a main villain, they brought back Wesker from the dead in Resident Evil – Code: Veronica and released a fictional documentary called Wesker's Report which explained that Wesker was behind the events of Resident Evil 2 and Resident Evil 3: Nemesis as well.
In the original PlayStation version of Resident Evil, the severed hand founded by Joseph Frost at the beginning of the game was originally established to be that of Edward Dewey, Bravo Team's originally unseen pilot. When both the remake and Zero came out, Edward Dewey was established to have died earlier during the events of Zero and the corpse found by Joseph now belongs to Kevin Dooley, a helicopter pilot who accompanied Bravo Team on their mission.
Originally, the team wielded generic Beretta handguns in the PlayStation version of the first game. Resident Evil 3: Nemesis then introduced the Samurai Edge, a customized Beretta that was planned to be adopted as the standard-issue sidearm by S.T.A.R.S. before they disbanded. In the GameCube remake onward, the S.T.A.R.S. members now all use the Samurai Edge.
Resident Evil 2 has Annette Birkin, a paranoid wife of the now mutated monster, William Birkin. She is continuing her husband's legacy of the G-Virus research and is angry at Claire for "killing" her husband. Resident Evil: The Darkside Chronicles rewrites Annette's character to be more sympathetic and is willing to stop her husband after he mutates. The Resident Evil 2 (Remake) combines these two portrayals, turning her into a more morally grey character who wants to prevent the virus from spreading while still being willing to let her daughter die to do so.
Lisa Trevor was added to the rewritten canon of Resident Evil 1. A child savagely experimented on but instead of dying from the viruses, she absorbed them becoming almost invincible, eventually turning into a mindless hulking monster that stalks the Arklay Mansion.
Resident Evil 3: Nemesis has a file named "Business Fax" that introduces a virus called the "NE-T type", which is a translation mistake (the NE-T Type is actually the name of the Nemesis). Said virus didn't exist up until years later with the release of Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles, in which they have decided to make it official with the "NE-α type parasite".
Ada Wong has two different Disney Deaths in the original Resident Evil 2: falling off a catwalk or being thrown into an electrical console. Which of the two is canon has gone back and forth over the years. Wesker’s Report implies that the former happened, which was later changed when Darkside Chronicles establishes that the latter did. Then the Resident Evil 2 (Remake) goes back on that and uses the scene on the catwalk, cementing it as what really happened.
In Saints Row 2 onward. The game (and its successors) lets you be a female, unlike in the first, where the Boss can only be male. The devs have stated that, canonically, if the Boss is female in the last three games, then she was female in the first one too.
Silent Hill:
The exact nature of Silent Hill changes dramatically between games, comics and the film. Silent Hill implies that the Fog World and the Otherworld are manifested from Alessa's subconscious, because of her psychic powers as well as her many fears and traumas. This changes in Silent Hill 2, and is featured in some the comics, which suggests that the town was always a dark place, and that Alessa just caused the evil to break through into our world. It switches again in Silent Hill 3 and Homecoming, both featuring the Fog World being caused by the Order, who are able to control it to some degree (note that some manifestations in SH3 are relatable to Heather, "God," and the memories of Alessa as well). Origins and the first film restate Alessa's mind as the main source of the manifestations, though these installments imply or outright explain that they were actively created by Alessa in retribution for the crimes committed against her. Other comics say it was caused by the impregnation of a woman by Whately, who does not appear or is mentioned in any of the games. Finally, Silent Hill: Downpour suggests that the town itself is sentient.
The Hope House Orphanage, mentioned in an article in SH3, is a playable location in Silent Hill 4: The Room, though now dubbed the "Wish House Orphanage." The original article reappears in The Room, though this iteration of the article also reads "Wish House."
In The Sims series, Bella Goth's brother, Michael Bachelor, was implied to be her younger brother in The Sims (him being fresh out of college while she's already married and has a school-aged kid) but he became her older brother in sequels.
Sniper Elite 4 establishes series protagonist Karl Fairburne as a British SOE operative, when the three previous games depicted him as an American OSS agent.
Sonic the Hedgehog's retcons are confusing at best:
There's the entire re-imagining that everything post-Sonic Adventure has brought when it comes to ages. Amy went from eight years old to twelve and Knuckles went from fifteen to sixteen.
Sonic Generations had an interesting one concerning Sonic himself. Early on Sonic was 18, then 16, and finally 15 come Adventure. When the decision was made to put in Modern Sonic and Classic Sonic, it was decided that Classic Sonic was a preteen Sonic. And since he was with Classic Tails, Classic Eggman and Classic Metal Sonic, it retroactively made Sonic the Hedgehog, Sonic the Hedgehog CD, Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Sonic 3 & Knuckles all adventures with the heroes as kids. Sonic Mania and Sonic Forces in turn reveal that the Classic Sonic met in Generations isn't the same character as Modern Sonic; while both of their adventures up to 3 & Knuckles happened the same way when Modern Sonic was younger, the little Blue Blur is an alternate universe counterpart, which means he may be a teenager.
Sonic Adventure may have retconned the Master Emerald's location. It was originally the underground Hidden Palace Zone, but it now rests in a much smaller, outdoor temple.
And then there's the infamous Sonic the Hedgehog (2006), the entire game was Cosmic Retconned from the timeline in the ending by blowing out The Flames Of Disaster, which has lead to some confusion on how Silver still exists since the events that lead to his future were erased.
Nevermind the fact that the level Crisis City appears in Sonic Generations, even though 06 erased itself from canon, and there's no reason given for as to why its there. There was actually going to be a cutscene that would play opon completing both acts of the stage, that might have shed some light on why the Stage is here. But it was cut during development.
Also, Blaze the Cat is from the future now. Just after we introduced her as the princess from another dimension.
Sonic has always lived amongst humans and this became concrete in-game with Sonic Adventure. That is, until sometime between Sonic Colors and Sonic Forcesnote . As it turns out there are now two different Sonic continuities: one World of Funny Animals and one where humans exist. Word of God states that this has been in place since Adventure, but the first in-game evidence was only in Forces, which also states that the current Classic Sonic is from another dimension (with previous games contradicting the split timeline and it only being mentioned to fans in 2017). This flies in the face of even the classic games, which had a few humans (namely Dr. Eggman/Robotnik and Witchcart) and urban environments, as well as much of the official art from that time, which depicted crowds of humans next to Sonic characters.
In the Soul Calibur games, it is revealed that Sophitia Alexandria died at some point during the Time Skip between IV and V. Expanded universe material further elaborates that she removed the Soul Edge shard which was embedded near her heart in the canon ending of the very first game, which freed her daughter Pyrrha from the evil sword's influences but cost her own life. As of Lost Swords, however, this character is back and fully playable, and her website profile states that she's just "missing" instead of strictly deceased. And now Soul Calibur VI completely retcons it away (and by extension, V) as part of a Continuity Reboot, making the whole thing moot.
Cheekily parodied (while played straight in its own way) in South Park: The Fractured but Whole. The game allows you to choose The New Kid's gender despite only being able to play as a boy in the previous game. If you choose to play as a girl or gender-neutral, Mr. Mackey will call up your parents to confirm that you were in-fact not a boy during the previous game.
Splatoon:
In the North American version of Splatoon, Marie originally liked marshmallows. However, ever since the third Splatfest (hot dogs vs marshmallows) she's been retconned into disliking marshmallows.
Some of Marina's translation-only snappier comments in Splatoon 2 were retconned in updates. One example is her saying that the music reverb makes it "easier to ignore how off-key [Pearl] is" being changed to "easier to ignore how off-key we are". This was done to make Marina less mean-seeming and closer to her Japanese personality.
StarCraft:
StarCraft: Brood War: In the original game, the Terrans are portrayed as a near-offshoot of humanity long isolated from Earth, with a separate historical and technological development. The swift arrival of a United Earth Directorate with similar technology and language in the Expansion Pack manages to contradict the spirit of this several times over. The first UED mission is partially about stealing Terran technology, a mention is made of the configuration of the UED flagship being unlike any Terran ship yet encountered (despite looking identical), and the manual tries to Handwave it away with references to bugs built into Terran equipment (and the UED is the in-game explanation for several new units and technologies) but even a rather lenient interpretation of events has trouble making it all fit together.
StarCraft II had a pretty big one involving the Zerg Overmind. In the original game, the instruction manual states that the Overmind was created with an imperative to absorb creatures into the Swarm and thereby improve the Zerg. This is what caused it to rebel and overrun the Xel'Naga. SC 2 states that another force interfered with the creation of the Overmind, enslaving it to that imperative. It also says that the creation of Infested Kerrigan and the death of the Overmind was all part of a Thanatos Gambit to free the Zerg from this control. Kerrigan wouldn't have his imperative. So after creating her, he then went to the most powerful species in the sector, set up camp on the homeworld, and gave them both a reason and the opportunity to kill him. This also conveniently explains why in SC1, the Overmind decided to leave the all-important Kerrigan behind when he went to Auir.
Before Starcraft II even began, you had the retcon of Blizzard deciding to make the Brood War Praetor, Artanis, the Player Character from the Protoss campaign of the original Starcraft. It doesn't seem to have affected much, but it does make a lot of Brood War's dialogue with anything containing Artanis odd. Most characters, especially Aldaris, treat Artanis like the new guy that knows nothing, even though he's now supposed to be the war-experienced Executor from the original game's Episode 3.
Kerrigan now has split-personalities in Starcraft II instead of being the lone queen-bitch-of-the-universe from the original games. It's clear Blizzard wanted to return Kerrigan to the good side, and wanted the whole Raynor x Kerrigan romance to happen, but to do it, they would have had to have Kerrigan accomplish something extremely redeeming for her. Only Blizzard didn't decide to go that route. They copped out and made it so that her BAD side was what caused all the destruction while the GOOD side is inside the Queen of Blades somewhere struggling to get out. Not once in either of the original Starcraft games is there ever a hint of Kerrigan possibly having split personalities. This plotline was only added in Starcraft II to get Kerrigan back on the good side in the least amount of believable work as possible.
Tassadar isn't completely dead anymore. He's now an all-knowing ghost that hangs out around the rotting carcass of the Overmind. Though that actually turns out to be a surviving xel'naga using his form.
Zeratul is bewildered and questions who could've created such an abomination when he comes across a living Hybrid... this comes many years after meeting Duran in Dark Origins and learning of his Hybrid experiments.
Street Fighter:
The series had its fair share of retcons, but some of them are not actual legitimate changes to the story so much as they are actually the result of inconsistent translations between the Japanese and English versions of the game (such as the revelation in Super SF II that Cammy was M. Bison's lover in the past, which never actually occurred in the Japanese ending). One legitimate retcon concerns the many ways Guile's combat buddy Charlie has been killed off throughout Alpha series (stabbed in the back in the first Alpha, gunned down in Alpha 2, and died in an explosion in Guile's ending in Alpha 3). The early anime trailers for the console version of Street Fighter IV implied that Charlie may not be dead after all, but Guile's prologue and ending in Super Street Fighter IV seems to suggest that Charlie is dead again. Street Fighter V came along and confirmed his death (as well as establishing the Alpha 2 ending as being what really happened), but then had the Illuminati bring him back as Frankenstein's monster-like living weapon to use against Bison.
When SF II originally debuted, Ryu had become famous after defeating Sagat. Capcom changed it years later, by making Sagat the actual winner of the match, who was offering to help Ryu back to his feet when the latter succumbed to the Satsui no Hadonote  and cheapshot him with a surprise Gou Shoryu. This created another retcon in itself. Originally, Sagat was consumed by hatred for Ryu and wanted vengeance, as seen in Ryu's ending for SF: Alpha. Whereas the newer version makes it so Sagat never hated him, and was only trying to set the record straight about who really won the match.
The biggest retcon, however, is saved for Gouken, the original master who trained Ryu and Ken. While Gouken's origins, identity, and even existence remained ambiguous for much of the franchise's early years, slowly the character began to emerge and was portrayed as the long-dead (and inherently mystical and mysterious) master killed by his brother, Akuma. Then suddenly in Street Fighter IV, the character's back story was blatantly Retconned to add in the convenient fact that Gouken was never killed, just rendered in a coma and everyone (Ryu, Ken, Akuma, etc.) thought he'd been dead all this time. Admittedly, Gouken was included in the game almost solely as a nod toward the infamous Sheng Long "secret" but nonexistent character in the Street Fighter series, as well as rumors throughout several games that Gouken was somehow playable. Still, this massive Retcon removed most all of Gouken's mysterious, mystical nature and turned him into a standard, more generic fighter.
Bison was officially considered dead following Super Street Fighter II: Turbo and remained that way until Street Fighter IV. Now he apparently has multiple bodies stored somewhere in case his soul needs to inhabit a new one. Also muddying the waters was another "inconsistent translation" that claimed Akuma's Shun Goku Satsu was some kind of karmic punishment that dragged the victim's soul to hell where it gets attacked by demons, which became popular Fanon (officially, it's just a nigh-instantaneous barrage of attacks, as seen with in SFV). Once again, Street Fighter V stepped in and cleared things up by having Bison die once and for all, with Charlie performing a Heroic Sacrifice to siphon away most of Bison's Psycho Power, leaving him weak enough to be destroyed — soul and all — by Ryu's Power of Nothingness-imbued Hadouken.
Street Fighter Alpha 3 introduced the Dolls, twelve young women kidnapped from all over the world and brainwashed into becoming Bison's Amazon Brigade of bodyguards. The console port brought back T. Hawk from SF II Turbo, then explained his presence in this Prequel by saying that one of the Dolls was kidnapped from his tribe and he was out to rescue her. However, this ran head-first into Gameplay and Story Segregation: the only Dolls who are playable in the game are Juni and Juli, who are both German; one of the Dolls (Noembleu) is an Amerindian, but she only appears in a pre-battle intro. As such, Hawk's story revolves around him trying to rescue Juli, and over the years Capcom has tried to explain this by changing her backstory, variously saying that she's Hawk's Childhood Friend, his little sister, or his girlfriend/lover, all while calling her German heritage into question. UDON's comics keep it simpler, having Noembleu as the kidnapped tribe member, but saying that Hawk is also trying to save Juli since her father was a friend of the tribe's.
In Summoner, Laharah is an evil goddess, and her followers, the Nuvasarim, feed on agony. This is thoroughly - and convincingly - retconned in the sequel, in which Laharah is the protagonist. except that neither Laharah, nor Urath, nor any other gods exist. They are all merely parts of Aosi. What's that you say? Vadagar's giant three-headed corpse? We didn't walk through any giant three-headed corpse!
The Koopalings from Super Mario Bros. 3 were originally introduced as Bowser's children. However, after this game this was not mentioned again, and the Koopalings got called Bowser's "minions" in later games, but the "Bowser's children" wasn't disproved either, leading fans to still believe they were his kids. It was not until a 2012 interview that Miyamoto officially said that "in the current story, the Koopalings are not Bowser's children."
Team Fortress 2 has had a few retcons since the developers have tried to add more back story to an otherwise plotless game as well as shift the tone from lighthearted mid-20th-century pulp to full-on wacky comedy.
The back story of the Demoman originally told of him killing his biological parents while trying to blow Nessie out of the water, then growing up in a foster home afterward. However, when a comic from the WAR! update in December 2009 depicted the Demoman talking to his real mother (who, in turn, talked about his real father), Valve retconned this by saying that he had only killed his adoptive parents, and his biological parents later heard of his great skills at explosives and took him out of the foster home for proper training. The Demoman's eye story later got changed yet again, this time his eye was possessed by MONOCULUS! in the Bombinomicon (Halloween 2011) comic. It isn't known if it's the same Demoman, or if the RED and BLU ones have different back stories with the same result.
RED and BLU were originally described as "two holding companies that secretly control every government on earth." Since then, it has been revealed that they're actually the end product of a petty squabble between two rich but dimwitted brothers who inherited half of their father's useless real estate each and are in the process of squandering their liquid assets fighting to gain control over the rest of it, with the delusion that it will help them corner the market on gravel. All the businesses they supposedly own were merely fronts for more fighting, and nobody has ever been fooled by them.
The Big Bad of Terraria the Moon Lord was stated to be the brother of Cthulhu by the devs. Later at the game's 8th anniversary though, the relation of Cthulhu was dropped in favor of just making him Cthulhu himself.
In Twilight Heroes, the heroes can retcon to kick off New Game+ after your actions destroy an entire neighborhood.
Ultima:
The Balrons were originally the barely disguised expy of Balrogs from The Lord of the Rings, very powerful and very evil demon lords. Ultima VI later explains that no, they were actually a misunderstood race of Gargoyles. Interestingly, the existence of demonic Balrons seems to have returned in Ultima Online.
Near the end of Ultima VI, you are told how you defeated the bosses of the three first games. These retellings remove many of the sillier elements, such as flying an X-Wing in Ultima I.
The Avatar is established to be the same as the Stranger, the hero of the first three games, and in later depictions, is a blonde male human, despite being able to choose a difference gender, race, and portrait in prior games.
Ultima IX establishes the Time Lord, who appeared in Ultima III and Ultima VII, is the same person as the Seer Hawkwind who appeared in Ultima IV.
Unreal: maybe because in an arena shooter, story is pretty much optional; Malcolm becomes Grand Champion by beating Xan during the 2341 competition during the events of Unreal Tournament. Immediately retconned to 2293 in Unreal Championship and Unreal Tournament 2003, which take place a century later, after the Earth and humanity were conquered by an alien empire. In UT2004, events are completely rewritten as Unreal Championship enters full canon discontinuity and UT2003 becomes a normal tournament taking place in 2302, where Gorge beat Malcolm. Unreal Tournament 2004 happens in 2303. The winner is unknown but supposedly either Malcolm, Xan, the Skaarj leader or the player. In Unreal Championship 2, in 2315, Lauren and Brock are Necris after being killed by Gorge just after Malcolm's defeat, so in the off-season between 2302 and 2303. However, they competed as humans in 2303. In Unreal Tournament III, which happens between UT2004 and UC2 despite taking place in the 2340s, Lauren appears as a human despite being necrified for years and is listed as a former champion, even though at that point, she is supposedly either dead or didn't reach the finals of the 2303 tournament. A whole bloody mess of a timeline.
Rivaling the Klingons are the orcs from Blizzard's Warcraft franchise. In the first two games the orcs were simply Always Chaotic Evil, but in the third game they were now led by Thrall, a young Shaman, who wants to return his people back to the way they were before the Burning Legion came to Draenor. It turns out that, instead of being bloodthirsty idiots for 100 years as originally stated, they were a peaceful race of warriors who had been corrupted by the Burning Legion only about 5 years before they came to Azeroth. This meant that several orcs remember the time before the corruption. To help with the retcon Blizzard has made a book explaining the corruption and has planned two new books that will show what really happened during the Tides of Darkness and Beyond the Dark Portal video games.
To Blizzard's credit, though, they have admitted that gameplay and balance far supersede continuity in the context of how important they are, and that if they can't make a game element fit within the confines of the established lore, they will alter it to suit their needs. Adding in a dash of Unreliable Narrator (given that all of the tie-in-books and game-based-lore are, in some form, intended to have been documented by those present for those given events) also helps explain inconsistencies, using a Watsonian explanation for certain elements.
Blizzard stated in 2013 that the Warcraft movie is intended to tell the "true" events of the early games, indicating yet another retcon.
Even when one allows for fanon, it's often argued that the draenei are an even bigger retcon than the orcs. In the first two games, they were presumed to be an extinct race. But some survivors (ugly raptor-footed mooks) appeared in the third game. Then, when the Alliance needed a new race in World of Warcraft, the draenei were picked... and their appearance was changed to make them look like smaller, bluer eredar (big demons who had been heavily involved in the corruption of a titan and were the main villains of the third game). The explanation was that the eredar from the third game are actually the man'ari eredar, a corrupted form of the original Eredar, who were actually the draenei. No one's quite sure what corrupted the titan in the first place (dreadlords were definitely involved, but it seems unlikely that it was them alone), but he was the one who corrupted the eredar, rather than the other way around. The draenei in the third game were revealed to have been mutated by demonic magic. In other words, the draenei the players play are the original unmutated draenei, who are in fact the original uncorrupted eredar. Does your head hurt yet?
Let's not forget their Horde counterpart, the Blood Elves. Supposedly they all followed Kael'Thas into the Outlands, but in World of Warcraft, there are a lot of them left in Azeroth, and not only that, they also managed to rebuild half of their capital city in a mere four years. And seeing as there are two banks and auction houses in it, business is obviously going great.
Also see Not Quite Dead and Staying Alive for mind-boggling character revivals in the game universe. Blizzard heavily retcons everything to make new quests (the Black and Blue Dragons were originally stated to have only the aspects left), and make some playable units (see blood elves and draenei). The fans have just learned to accept it.
A rather nasty example comes from the plotline regarding Arthas in Wrath of the Lich King. A plot twist occurs in the Icecrown Citadel instances stating that killing Arthas would only enrage the undead and make them more destructive because it's actually only Arthas' will that are holding them back. However, this seemingly contradicts earlier quest chains which establish that Arthas has no humanity left due to ripping out his own heart and having it manifest as Matthias Lehner. It also causes even more problems when you consider the fact that there's no real reason given why the undead would become more mindless and destructive given that we've already re-killed most of them and we have seen how the Forsaken have free will and aren't mindless at all. They might be bitter and angry, but not mindlessly destructive. It all seems like a thinly veiled excuse to give a reason why the undead and the Lich King are still around after Arthas dies.
Worgen: Barely sentient ravening extradimensional hellhounds, or just druidic devotees of the wolf god who lost control?
A main one, and one everyone seems to forget is that Deathwing, the Big Bad in Cataclysm was killed in the canon campaign of Beyond the Dark Portal in Warcraft 2. Handwaved by Blizzard that he faked his death by crashing into the ocean.
Gul'dan's original story stated he was a member of the Shadowmoon Clan and apprentice to Ner'zhul who made a bargain with the Legion from his desire for power. The Harbingers mini-series retcons this to Gul'dan being the crippled exile of a nameless clan he later destroyed who, denied the blessing of the elements, made a bargain with the Legion.
Blizzard later announced the massive Chronicle projects which will provide a clear and bullet-proof canon... by retconing everything.
The Big Bad of the Burning Legion Sargeras was originally a Titan who, after witnessing the depravity of the demonic races, went insane. His crusade was meant to undo the work of the Titans as he believed it had given rise to the demons. Chronicle changed this by adding the Void Lords as an Outside-Context Villain. Sargeras was driven insane when he saw how they had corrupted an infant Titan and he launched his Crusade in order to kill all nascent Titans rather than potentially allow such a thing to exist.
The Well of Eternity was originally stated to be a font of magic the Titans deliberately created at the center of Kalimdor before departing as a kind of art. Chronicle instead states that when the Old God Y'shaarj was forcibly ripped from Azeroth's surface it injured the nascent Titan at the planet's core. The arcane-infused Titan blood formed the lake which became the Well of Eternity.
Related to both of the above, Sargeras was originally fixated on Azeroth due to the Well of Eternity and general hatred for the planet having previously repelled his assault. Chronicles instead states that the world-soul of Azeroth will be the strongest Titan in existence once it awakens. Sargeras wishes to destroy Azeroth to prevent her falling to the Void Lords.
Another pretty big one is with the nature of undead. Warcraft 3 implied that turning undead automatically makes you evil (something the pen and paper game stated outright), as Arthas becomes evil as soon as he becomes a death knight, and Sylvanas starts become evil shortly after becoming undead. World of Warcraft gradually started to change this, likely because one of the player races is undead and they probably figured having an Always Chaotic Evil player race would be a bad thing, and eventually added an undead paladin character (admittedly, he didn't choose to be undead, but was still good after he became such.) Additionally, they explained Arthas immediately turning evil as being due to Frostmourne stealing his soul, as well as Sylvanas Slowly Slipping Into Evil as being more due to the insane amount of misery she's been through as well as her feeling like she has nothing to hope for.
During the Shadowlands expansion announcement several elements appeared which contradicted both previous canon and Chronicle canon. The explanation given is that Chronicle is written from the Titan perspective and so certain elements may be skewed due to their perceptions or biases. The retcon-to-end-all-retcons is now open to retcons.
The Shadowlands as written in Chronicle were a dismal realm that closely mirrors reality but was teeming with the ghosts of the departed. Shadowlands revises this to a series of carefully organized afterlives that lacks the existential horror.
Frostmourne and the Helm of Domination were established as being crafted by the Nathrezim in the Arthas novel. Shadowlands reveals they were in fact created in the Maw by a mysterious figure.
In the Warcraft 3 manual it was established that Scourge architecture was inspired by that of Nerubians. During a Q&A it was further established that the Nerubians had derived their architecture from the Tol'vir. Shadowlands upended this by indicating Scourge architecture was derived from Maldraxxus instead.
Demons in Warcraft 3 were indicated to be very powerful and near infinite in number, but still killable. At great cost, two great demon generals were killed and finally one of the top figures of the Legion were wiped out with much fanfare and glory, though with an element of sacrifice in each case. At some point in WoW, however, demons were said to have Resurrective Immortality, a trait that would have badly undermined the deaths of Mannoroth and Archimonde. "Good job sacrificing yourself to save our race from corruption, Grom, too bad Mannoroth will be back in a week or two." Doesn't have the same impact, does it?
Legion further confused this by establishing that the souls of demons return to the Twisting Nether to be reborn, and thus the only way to kill them is by doing so in the Nether. However the end of the expansion upended this by stating that demons could only be reborn due to the Legion using the world-soul of Argus, a nascent Titan, as a power source.
It's a huge plot point in the second Yo-Kai Watch game that the protagonist's grandfather created the first Yo-kai Watch as a child. This also appears in the first anime film. Come Yo-kai Watch 4 (and Yo-kai Watch: Shadowside - The Return of the Oni King) and suddenly Yo-kai Watches have existed since ancient times. Note that these Yo-kai Watches were created by an ancient tribe known as the Genyou, and there were originally purposed as mirrors (i.e. The Yo-kai Watch Elder was originally called the Elder Black Magic Mirror, and the Yo-kai Watch Ogre's original name was the Ogre Seal Orb Mirror). This means the previous protagonist's grandfather created a Yo-kai Watch to harness the power of Yo-kai in its most basic level, as it do the subsequent models. Cue 30 years after their adventures, Yo-kai have developed Lightside and Shadowside forms, and the enemies this time are far more dangerous not to mention stronger, thus needing a greater power (which Shadowside Yo-kai happen to have) to hope to stand up to them. Add to the fact that the original era's Yo-kai Watches were destroyed by Jaou Kaira upon his ascension to the thorne of the Yo-kai World, the Genyou-made Yo-kai Watches are the only way to fight back as they can harness the higher power of Shadowside Yo-kai, the Kenbumajin, and the Genma.

Retcon / Western Animation
Avatar: The Last Airbender:
In a season two episode, Ozai and Iroh's father Azulon is said to have been Fire Lord for 23 years before Ozai and that Fire Lord Sozin ruled for the first 70 or so years of the 100 year war. The Nick website also provided a brief backstory for Sozin saying that he was a young man when he became Fire Lord shortly before Roku died and was prevented from starting the war until the elder Avatar Roku's death. Come season three where it's revealed that Sozin and Roku are actually the same age and that he was an old man when he started the war. In response, the creators revealed that Sozin ruled for only the first 20 years of the war before Azulon took over for the next 75 years before Ozai became the Fire Lord for the last 5 years. This has caused confusion for many fans.
Katara mentioned early on that the Fire navy shipwreck near her village has been around since her grandmother was a little girl. Fast forward to the end of the season where we learn that Katara's grandma isn't even from the Southern Water Tribe and didn't arrive there until she was no younger than sixteen.
Early on it's implied that Avatar Roku lived for more than 100 years and that Kyoshi has been dead for multiple centuries. We later learn that Roku was actually only about 70 when he died and Kyoshi died (though still a long time ago) less than 200 years prior to the present at age 230.
Furthermore, in the third episode, Avatar Kyoshi was not shown as the Avatar before Roku, in her place there was a male Earth Avatar. There was a statue that looked similar to her in the same scene suggesting that the writers had her design, just not the proper order of Avatars. Regardless, this was quickly fixed in the next episode.
On the show's website it suggests that Kyoshi was born on the island later named after her, yet we later find out that it wasn't even an island until she made it one.
Futurama:
"The Why Of Fry". This fourth-season episode posits that the original accident causing Fry to be frozen and sent forward into the year 3000 was actually intentionally caused by Nibbler and the Nibblonians so that he could save the universe from the giant space brains. At first glance, this seems like a retcon; however, careful viewing of the original first episode shows the shadow of Nibbler underneath the desk as the accident happens and in a revisited scene his eye stalk poking out, proving that the producers of the show set this up from the very beginning.
In Lethal Inspection, we see the real story of Bender's birth after he told a different version. Rather than being born full-sized just a few years ago, he was born as a baby-shaped robot with a visibly-younger Hermes as his inspector. Completely worth it for that song.
Bender caused the alien apocalypse we see in the first episode.
One of the biggest retcons was the episode "Where No Series Has Gone Before", where it is revealed that it is illegal to even mention Star Trek. Virtually every episode before that had at least one Star Trek reference. When Fry meets Leonard Nimoy at the Head Museum he calls him "Spock". When Fry is confused by the DOOP, Hermes says it's like the Federation on Star Trek. Also, in a DVD commentary, one of the writers suggested that characters were saying "Start Wreck" rather than Star Trek.
Kim Possible: While it was never mentioned in the show proper, the Word of God in the beginning was that Shego's plasma hands were due to some technology in her gloves, which matched with how her powers were used in first season episodes. She was eventually turned superhuman, shown using her abilities barehanded, and even given a Super Hero Origin Backstory. Note that the official website still has the original explanation.
The Justice League cartoons get rid of most of the annoying retcons in The DCU, but they make a few new ones. Doomsday showed up in the original Justice League episode "A Better World," in which he said he was an alien invader looking to see what Earth had to offer in the way of worthy opponents. He's never heard of Superman before and doesn't seem to care one way or another about him. Later on in Justice League Unlimited he was retconned to be a creation of Project Cadmus, who reverse-engineered him from Superman's DNA and conditioned him to hate Superman above all else. Then, to explain his appearance in the older episode, Cadmus shot him into space. His voice even had modulation added to it.
Batman Beyond threw together plot points from dozens of episodes and two movies into something they clearly weren't originally meant to be. It's cleverly pulled off, though, as any potentially created inconsistencies are rather smoothly Hand Waved by a line from the creators, stating that their choice to have Bruce Wayne revealed as Terry and Matt's biological father was partly motivated by them realizing how Terry and Matt having black hair is genetically improbable since Warren's hair was light-brown and Mary is a redhead.
The Simpsons:
The series most dramatic and controversial retcon occurred in the 2008 episode, "That 90's Show." In the earlier episodes, Homer and Marge attended high school in the late 1970's got married three or four years after graduating from high school after Marge became pregnant with Bart, Bart was born in 1980, Lisa was born in 1982, and Maggie was born in 1989, and the show took place in the 1990s, with the characters never aging. By the 2000s, however, this timeline had become increasingly implausible, and was given a hard reset in "That 90's Show." Homer and Marge were now shown to have met in what appears to be the mid 1990s, which implies the kids were born in the early 2000s. Other changes were made as well: Marge in previous episodes had never gone to college, but was now established as having attended in the mid 90's; Homer had a Grunge band, whereas in an earlier episode he didn't understand grunge at all; and they also showed us that they dated for at least ten years before getting married and having the kids, who are now retconned into being born in the early 2000's. "That 90's Show" itself seems to have been since retconned, with "the past" now depicted far more generically, rather than tied to any specific decades. Presumably this is because in the 2020s, even the idea of Homer and Marge being college-age in 90s now seems increasingly unlikely if they're currently supposed to be in their 30s.
The Simpsons Floating Timeline being what it is, this retcon actually makes sense. The Simpsons' time exists on a sliding line, so even though every episode happens in "the present", the past keeps moving forward. Also note that while the kids' ages never change, Marge and Homer have been, albeit very slowly, getting older; being in their mid-thirties in early episodes and now nearing forty (presumably to reflect the aging American population), which does leave a gap for the events of "that 90's show" to take place.
The writers have made clear that some things are immune to the sliding time gimmick. Grandpa Simpson and Mr. Burns will always be WW2 veterans, even if that makes them unrealistically old. They will also have both known the Great Depression.
Also on the subject of Mr. Burns, he started out at 81 years old (the early episode where Homer defrauds the plant's health insurance for hair growth), but is now canonically 104 years old.
Mr. Burns had been mentioned to be 104 as early as season 6. Although, his age is basically debated, many of his other mentioned possible ages place him as being older than 104, some place him at 118, others at 122.
Mr. Burns' age has also been said to be four digits in "Them Robot", and even more jarringly his place of birth has been stated to be Pangaea, a super-continent which broke apart in the Triassic period.
Unrelated to the sliding timeline, one glaring aspect that was essentially retconned from the show is Homer's relationship with his mother. In the fourth episode, "There's No Disgrace Like Home", Homer mentions that his mother said he was a big disappointment. However, if "Mother Simpson", "My Mother the Carjacker", and "Mona Leaves-a" are any indications, Mona Simpson has always loved Homer and it's doubtful she would've ever said anything of the sort.
As for the whole 90's retcon, it helps to clear up one glaring Plot Hole that Jon Stewart once pointed out to Matt Groening in an interview. Homer and Marge were supposed to be in their late 30s. They got married when they found out Marge was pregnant with Bart, but since Bart is only 10, about a decade would had to have passed between high school and Bart being conceived. Lisa even lampshaded said plot hole in the episode.
A season 3 episode (Bart the Murderer) establishes Fat Tony's name as William "Fat Tony" Williams. Several seasons later, he's canonically named Anthony "Fat Tony" D'Amico. It's either a case of this or the writers forgetting they already named him.
In early episodes, Nelson alluded to living with his (mostly unseen) father, with various odd hints of why his mother left the family (being addicted to cough drops, going crazy, etc.) In later episodes he lives with his mom and his dad never came back from the store (which was then revealed to be against his will, then retconned back into normal abandonment).
An explicit retcon occurred in the season 9 episode "The Principal and the Pauper", where it was revealed that Seymour Skinner is actually an impostor, originally born as Armin Tamzarian and having moved to Springfield to assume the life and identity of the real Skinner. Apparently, none of his past prior to becoming the principal of Springfield Elementary is his own. Needless to say, this contradicts a very large deal of prior material, particularly the evidence that he served as a sergeant in the Vietnam War. This turn of events was particularly unpopular among both fans and staff alike (Matt Groening even personally considers the episode non-canon) and the retcon is mentioned only once in later episodes.
The fact that Maggie shot Mr. Burns has been gradually retconned back into an unsolved mystery as part of Mythology Gag about the controversy and implausibility of that being the answer to the famous "Who Shot Mr. Burns" mystery of Season 6-7. In the season 9 episode "The Cartridge Family" Homer says "I thought Smithers did it?" to which Lisa agrees, in a suspicious tone, "that would have made a lot more sense..." Then, in season 18, Homer in a passing moment outright claims that he framed Maggie. In Season 22, Homer at one point instructs the viewer to go back and look for clues as to who "really" shot Mr. Burns. Marge scolds him that it was Maggie, but Homer seems unconvinced — "Oh sure, a baby shot a guy."
King of the Hill:
In "Death Picks Cotton", when Cotton tracks down Hank and company in a Japanese restaurant, it triggers his flashback, and he calls the Chef (who only speaks Spanish) a Tojo. However, part II of "Returning Japanese" had basically been about him forgiving the Japanese, and he was talked out of his scheme to spit in the Emperor of Japan's face by his illegitimate son Junichiro, resulting in apparent Aesop Amnesia. For that matter, that episode Flanderizes him back into the Jerkass, verbally Abusive Parent he was at the beginning of the series, throwing out his Character Development into a Jerk with a Heart of Gold.
Peggy's background was rewritten so that she spent most of her early life in Montana, rather than spending her high school years in Arlen. This complicates the episodes where Hank and Peggy are shown as High-School Sweethearts. Meanwhile, Peggy's mother changed from an older-looking version of Peggy who was just hyper-critical into a totally different looking woman who was a downright bitch.
Luanne's father/Peggy's brother didn't appear until near the end of the series, though was mentioned several times. Originally, he had fled to an oil rig in fear of his abusive ex-wife, refusing to come back on land until Hank faxed him her death certificate. Bill mentions him looking like a male version of Peggy while Hank mentions getting along with him. When he shows up, however, he is revealed to have actually been in jail for years for being a con artist and thief, a fact which Peggy hid from everyone with the oil rig story. He also looks nothing like Peggy and it seems that Hank had never met him before. This change calls forth several bits of Fridge Logic: one, Luanne is supposed to have seen the event that caused him to flee to the oil rig; how does his incarceration fit into that event, especially since we know her mom was put in jail herself for that abuse? And if she was already in jail, why did Peggy (and later Hank) think it would be so traumatizing for Luanne to also know that her father was as well? Also, they established several times that Luanne witnessed the fight between her parents that led to her mom stabbing her dad with the fork which occured in the very first episode where she was about 16 or 17, but in this episode her dad claims the last time he seen her she was a little girl about five years old and she has no memory of the event.
Hank and his old Arlen High School football team challenged the team that they lost against during the championships to a rematch that they eventually win. This one is made more annoying by the fact that Hank had come to terms with losing the game in an earlier episode. It left a bad taste considering it was one of the last episodes.
Another would be the origin of Dale's Rusty Shackleford identity, in a couple of early episodes he mentions he got the name from a boy who died from smallpox back in the 1950's, however it was later retconned in the season 11 episode "Peggy's Gone To Pots" where he supposedly got it from a boy who went to his school and moved away and Dale thought he died, and the "real" Rusty Shackleford arrives to tell him to stop using his name.
Thomas the Tank Engine: Reverend Awdry stated that the North Western Railway was built in 1914, mainly by Edward. In the 2009 movie Hero of The Rails, it is stated that the new character Hiro was responsible for building it.
Dexter's Laboratory:
In the fifth episode we are introduced to Dexter's rival, Mandark, who had just moved into the neighborhood as an exchange student. He introduces himself as Astrononminov (possibly his last name, but prefers to be called Mandark). He was a fairly competent villain, at least when Dee Dee wasn't around, and he had a sister named Olga Astrononminov that prefers to be called "Lalavava". In the last two seasons (made after a production gap of a couple years), Mandark is now named Susan and has a pair of hippie parents. He and Dexter supposedly first met when they were little, and he became an incompetent villain because Dexter made fun of his name.
Olga seems to have been forgotten by the writers entirely aside from her one appearance. Season 3 and 4 episodes went out of their way to exclude her.
The Fairly OddParents:
In one Oh Yeah! Cartoons episode Vicky mentions having a little brother. Said brother was never mentioned again but instead she has a little sister named Tootie.
In the original pilot, Vicky was apparently babysitting Timmy for the first time, and Timmy was ten. The first movie retconned both points: Vicky had been Timmy's babysitter for a year, and Timmy was nine when he first got Cosmo and Wanda.
The live-action Series Fauxnale, A Fairly Odd Movie: Grow Up, Timmy Turner!, retcons the Distant Finale ending of season four's Channel Chasers.
The season nine episode Let Sleeper Dogs Lie retcons Denzel Crocker's childhood as shown in season three's The Secret Origin of Denzel Crocker! The episode shows him to have always been a complete jerk, and that he lost his fairies due to turning 11, rather than being a nice kid who only lost Cosmo and Wanda due to Timmy interfering with his life and causing him to reveal the existence of his fairies, thus turning him bitter. This also retcons the idea previously established in Channel Chasers, where beyond revealing the existence of your fairies, the only reason you would lose them is if you either became an adult (which was Timmy's case) or your life has improved to the point where you no longer need them.
Remy was Put on a Bus for 4 seasons until season 9's Country Clubbed. Despite being a reoccuring antagonist of Timmy's, the episode acts as if the two have never met. The episode also depicts Remy as not having a fairy and even gave him a redesign.
Jonny Quest:
In the made for TV movie Jonny's Golden Quest, Jessie was revealed to be the daughter of Race Bannon and his mysterious lover Jezebel Jade, during a brief affair the two had. In the second season of the next series The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest, the new writing staff created the character of archeologist Estelle Vasquez to be Jessie's mom (and Race ex-wife) since they believed Jade wasn't the kind of woman who would settle down.
Jesse Bannon herself was a retconned version of Jesse Bradshaw, a character who appeared in an episode from the 80's series The New Adventures of Jonny Quest. The original Jesse was not related to Race Bannon.
Ben 10:
In the Ben 10: Alien Force episode "Be-Knighted" the evil group the Forever Knights has their Villain Decay cemented when it's revealed that their ultimate goal was no more than to slay some poor alien dragon they had captured as opposed to conquering the world, as they had attempted in the original series (they even had a different leader than was seen in the older series as well) because they're knights and, well, slaying dragons is what knights do. When Ben and company helped that dragon escape, they decided to eventually travel to that dragon's planet to try and wipe them out. Series writer/producer Dwayne McDuffie later revealed this was, in fact, their goal from the beginning and the Forever Knights Ben fought in the original series (led by former Plumber Driscoll as the "Forever King"), was actually a rogue splinter faction of the original group and that the king Patrick, seen in "Be-Knighted", was the true Forever King and Driscoll was an imposter, or something. Ben 10: Ultimate Alien changes it again. There are in fact many factions. Driscoll's was one, the ones literally Bullying a Dragon were another, but all were considered as having lost their way by the true founder, who returns and brings them all together (in an episode in which we see every Forever Knight leader from the past, all of whom are willing to follow the First Knight once he proves he's who he says he is). Their original goal was to get rid of an Eldritch Abomination called Diagon, but they seek to remove all "alien scum" from the Earth. This results in a Darker and Edgier arc beginning, where Diagon is the ultimate evil in the series and the Forever Knights are a very competent foe (and help in episodes related to their common enemy).
There's also changing the nature of Gwen's magic due to being part alien and turning the Plumbers from a defunct federal Men In Black-esque agency into a still-active intergalactic police force.
Kevin has his past added onto to make the complete overhaul of his powers and personality between the original series and AF/UA make at least more sense than it did originally. Also part alien; has the earlier energy powers and the new matter powers, but using energy makes him go nuts, making for the Kevin of the original series. However this was retconned yet again in Ben 10: Omniverse, with the revelation that Kevin was not part alien at all, but the Ben 10-verse equivalent of a mutant. Essentially, the series went and retconned a retcon. His father Devin Levin who was allegedly an Osmosian never existed and was part of several Fake Memories implanted by Servantis. Furthermore, not only was Kevin's alien origins retconned but almost every alien-human hybrids that made up the Plumbers Helpers (Alan, Manny, Helen, Pierce), introduced during Ben 10: Alien Force, partook in the retcon and their alien heritage was the result of using Kevin's mutant powers as a conduit to splice their human bases with alien DNA. Also, all of them and Kevin were part of a secret anti-Ben 10 team called "The Rooters" and had tried to stop Ben before in previously unseen encounters during the past.
Blukic and Driba were only introduced in Ben 10: Omniverse, but they had allegedly been around the whole time even though we had never seen them. Flashbacks in-between the original series and Ben 10: Alien Force inject them into the continuity even though there was never any mention of them. The explanation for this is that they had been on Earth since Max was young, and were actually the first aliens to officially make contact with humans, being the alien captured during the Roswell Incident.
South Park:
The Season 14 episode "201" retcons the twist ending of "Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut", from way back at the beginning of Season 2 (twelve seasons before) by revealing that Liane was Cartman's mother all along and her claim of being a hermaphrodite was simply a cover-up to protect the identity of Cartman's real father, a former right tackle for the Denver Broncos. Said Denver Bronco turns out to be none other than Jack Tenorman, the man Cartman murdered and fed to his son Scott in the Season 5 episode "Scott Tenorman Must Die". Cartman seems more upset at the fact that he is Scott Tenorman's half-brother, thus making him half-ginger, than with the revelation that he killed his own father and then fed his remains to Scott. He feels better when Mitch Connor reminds him of the fact that he's also half-Denver Bronco.
South Park also gives us what is possibly the most epic retcon ever. In the second episode of the "Coon and Friends" trilogy, Kenny reveals that he can't die. He explains to another superhero that he's died many times in the past, and just ends up waking up in his bed like nothing happened, the only one who remembers his gruesome demise.
In the episode "City Sushi", Tuong Lu Kim the Chinese restaurant owner is revealed to be another personality of Dr. Janus, a doctor who suffers from multiple personality disorder. In his past appearances, he was portrayed as an authentic Chinese man.
In "Mr. Hankey The Christmas Poo", it's established that Kyle's family are the only Jews in South Park. Later in "The Passion Of The Jew", we see a Jewish community large enough to have a synagogue (though the synagogue first appeared in "Cartmanland").
Kyle's background possibly got retconned. It's been mentioned a few times throughout the series that he moved to South Park when he was four; however, "It's a Jersey Thing" has him specifically saying that he was born "here," despite his parents moving from New Jersey while pregnant with him. Maybe he meant "here in Colorado," but not South Park specifically?
Early episodes refer to the Terrance and Phillip show as a cartoon, and indeed a parody of South Park itself, which is why it's "drawn" in such a blocky way. It was later established that Terrance and Phillip are actually real people who look like that, as they live in Canada where everything is blocky-looking. Similarly, the weird way baby Ike is drawn was originally just how all babies in South Park were going to look (in "Starvin' Marvin" you can even see an Ike-looking Ethiopian baby in a crowd shot at one point). This premise was later abandoned in favor of making Ike a Canadian baby.
Family Guy:
Lampshaded in the 9th season episode "Excellence in Broadcasting": When the Griffins hear that Rush Limbaugh is coming to town to promote his latest book, Chris recalls that, during Lois' brief stint at Fox News (in the "Foxy Lady" episode), she reported that both Limbaugh and Michael Moore were characters played by Fred Savage. Lois dismisses this, explaining that even if something is true to begin with it becomes a lie when said on Fox News.
The episode "Brian: Portrait of a Dog" shows Peter adopted Brian as a stray when he was washing people's cars to earn money, however "The Man With Two Brians" shows the Griffins got him as a puppy.
Joe's first appearance in "A Hero Sits Next Door" has the cause of his paralysis be falling from a rooftop after a fight with The Grinch. In season 11, it's revealed this story was something Joe made up and he's actually crippled from being shot.
In "The Griffin Winter Games", Meg reveals that she is a pro biathlete. The family asks how is it possible they are only hearing know about this and Meg replies that she's been training for years. A montage shows several well-known scenes of Family Guy with now Meg appearing roughly shoehorned in the scene and claiming that she's going to practice for the olympics.
Twice in the first season of Fanboy and Chum Chum, they mention the Christmas holiday as if they celebrate it (Fanboy says the word "Christmas" in "Eyes on the Prize" while Yo mentions Santa Clause in "Night Morning"). Come the second, it is shown they celebrate Icemas, a holiday that's like Christmas but with ice, and Man-Arctica is their equivalent of Santa Claus.
American Dad!:
In the fourth episode, it is stated that Roger has been living with the Smiths for four years since Stan rescued him from the C.I.A., however in a much later episode there's a flashback of Stan giving him to Steve as a little boy for his 10th birthday.
In a flashback from "White Rice", it was shown that Hayley once has a twin sister named Bailey who is implied to have died because Stan didn't allow them to get vaccinated. This goes against an earlier episode that showed Hayley as being a single birth (though that could have been a throwaway gag to make Stan look bad).
Played for Laughs in "Stan's Best Friend", wherein Stan refuses to let Steve get a puppy:
Francine: Stan, we had a dog already.
Stan: I don't think so.
Francine: We did! Five years ago, you got Steve a dog that peed dust and you killed him. We also had another dog named Fussy that you didn't like or something.
Stan: Francine, those were obviously dreams, and I refuse to discuss your dreams in the daytime.
Played straight with Francine's adopted sister Gwen. In the early episode "Big Trouble in Little Langley" she was established (via dialogue) as being a Brainless Beauty who needed all the help she could get to survive, which was why her parents were leaving everything to Gwen in their will, trusting their 'smart daughter' Francine to be okay without their money. Years later in "Now and Gwen", when Gwen finally shows up on screen she does turn out to be beautiful, but of average or better intelligence and a hardened criminal. Dialogue prior to "Now and Gwen" also said that she was younger than Francine by three years until the aforementioned episode made her the oldest by the same number of years.
Lampshaded in Frisky Dingo. In one episode, Grace Ryan is seen taking "Ret-Con" brand ant poison to cure herself of her Superpowered Evil Side Antagone. In another episode, it's explained that the Annihilatrix has been completely rebuilt, despite previously having been stripped down for scrap. A quick cut shows that the rebuilding was done by "Ret-Con" Construction Company.
In the Rocky and Bullwinkle story "Missouri Mish Mash", this occurs within the same story. At first it's said that the Kirwood Derby has been around since the Stone Age. Later on however, it's said that the derby was created for an otherwise idiotic moon prince.
The Arthur episode "Arthur and the True Francine" showed that Muffy first came to Elwood City when the others were in second grade. However, the first season episodes are filled with Early Installment Weirdness which was later ignored. Brain's Shocking Secret showed that Muffy has been in Elwood City since kindergarten.
When Morph is revealed to be alive in season 2 of X-Men, the flashbacks of his survival don't match the events of "Night of the Sentinels". In the original pilot, Jean telepathically senses Morph getting shot by the Sentinels and, only seconds later, Xavier tries to reach him, only to find no trace of his mind, implying he's dead. Meanwhile, it's shown that the X-Men were under siege by the Sentinels for at least several minutes before deciding they couldn't help him (or an also injured Beast) and reluctantly retreating. In the season 2 flashbacks however, Morph is shown to be still alive until after the X-Men leave. It's even worse in the X-Men Adventures spin-off comic. The second issue gives Morph an on screen death (something the cartoon never did), with Beast by his side, and even subtly explains what happened to his body (it was seemingly never found in the show). When season two rolls around, they just flashback to Sinister carrying him to safety, without ever explaining the inconsistencies with issue two.
Fillmore! episode 3 has Ingrid learn about Fillmore's delinquent past. Episode 8 establishes in flashback that he told her about it before even recruiting her to the Safety Patrol. It's unlikely Ingrid forgot, given that she literally has an eidetic memory.
A minor one with the Rankin-Bass Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer franchise and its crossovers with Frosty the Snowman and Santa Claus Is Coming To Town: in every film made after the original special, Rudolph's antlers are always much smaller than the other reindeers' … more in fitting with the original story, which had him with small antlers. He's also physically smaller than the rest. Even the direct sequel to the original, Rudolph And The Island Of Misfit Toys does this.
My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic:
The series has a noticeable case of Remember the New Guy?. In Pinkie Pie's backstory there's no sign of a fourth Pie child, but a later episode shows a picture of the day where she has a random new sister and Maude appears later as Pinkie's favorite sibling.
One of the comic arcs, Siege of the Crystal Empire, involved King Sombra's return to the Crystal Empire and subsequent Heel–Face Turn. The season 9 premiere proves this not to be the case, as Sombra is revived for real and never repents before being made Deader Than Dead.
Coinciding with Early Installment Weirdness, in a season one episode Twilight is turned to stone by looking a cockatrice in the eye. When she's later unfrozen, she appears to have no knowledge that any time has passed. In later seasons, however, it is said explicitly by Discord that a person remains fully aware and conscious while petrified. This is further confirmed in season nine when Maud's boyfriend, Mudbriar, is petrified by a cockatrice and remembers the experience.
A Pup Named Scooby-Doo has a jarring one involving Daphne's parents. In the episode involving Daphne's room being stolen, her parents are shown to look fairly different from her (in a sense that they don't look exactly like her) with an example of her mother having blonde hair. In the second-to-last episode of the cartoon, Daphne's parents are seen again, except this time they're adult carbon copies of her appearance wise and even have her "There's no such things as ghosts!'' verbal tic.
The title character of Sofia the First was hyped up as Disney's "first latina princess" however there was a backlash because she is a fair-skinned, brunette girl. A few years later Disney seems to have gone back on this statement as Elena of Avalor is being referred to as their first latina princess while Sofia seems to be from a Spain inspired country.
Care Bears & Cousins does a retcon of the rewrite type and carefully works around the established lore to explain why we didn't hear or see the cousins throughout Care Bears: Welcome to Care-a-Lot.
Katara was originally written as the only member of the Avatar: The Last Airbender main cast to be alive during The Legend of Korra. Somewhere in the development of future seasons they decided that Zuko was also alive, and in the last book the viewer learns that Toph is alive but Walking the Earth. That means at least half of the "Gaang" is alive, though whether Suki is alive or not is never mentioned.
Shimmer and Shine:
In Season 3, the magical incantations genies use for wish granting are changed to include the expression "wish granted" instead of the wishes' descriptions.
Season 3 episodes "Underground Bound" and "Wishy Washy Genie" establish that genies can't avoid granting wishes mentioned by whoever is holding their bottle or lamp until the daily wish quota is met. Kaz explains as much when Zac makes a bad wish and no reason is given for Shimmer and Shine having never done the same back in Season 1 whenever Leah made wish-shaped comments not meant to be actual wishes. It also contradicts Season 2 episode "Bling, Bling", where Shimmer and Shine questioned the reasoning behind one of the wishes Leah made and only granted it after she confirmed she had a plan.
ReBoot has many introduced in Season 4:
Bob and finally kissed at the end of season 3, only to have them becoming Just Friends in the next season. All this so the My Two Bobs story arc could work.
Bob always having a No virus deletion policy and wanting to reprogram them instead.
Hexadecimal being infatuated with Bob and wanting to start a relationship with him. While she always had a flirty relation with the Guardian, she never went was far as kissing him.
Game cubes having purple borders at the edge, while past seasons never shown such thing.
In Gargoyles, the Mutates have a different look from the first episode they were introduced to their next appearance. They looked more like cougarmen, while later they have a more varied look: a pantherman, a tigerman and a liongirl. Only Fang remained a cougarman. They also no longer have tails. Greg Weisman admitted he didn't like their initial appearances and have it changed, although the in-universe explanation is that they were still mutating between the two episodes.
In Milo Murphy's Law, the crossover with Phineas and Ferb reveals that Phineas and Ferb generally have things go right for them because they have positive probability ions to contrast with Milo's negative probability ions, which is used to make a Murphy's Law weapon powered by their ions. This makes one wonder how Phineas and Ferb even had anything bad happen to them in the first place and if everything they did was purely down to being born lucky with positive probability ions.
In the pilot of Sheep in the Big City, it was established that Farmer John's first name was Farmer because he loved farming that much. This was contradicted in a sketch about his parents naming him in the episode "Belle of the Baah", where it was instead established that his first name was Far because his parents wanted him to go far and that his middle name was Mer because his dad wanted to name him after his aunt Mer.
Ready Jet Go!: Due to the episodes airing out of production order, there are some. For example, the kids mention having a treehouse in "Jet 2", but they build said treehouse in "Treehouse Observatory".
A minor one in Wakfu: in Season One, Rubilax and his fellow Shushu Shadowfang are described by the former as a "four-element and five-element Shushu". In season 2, she's instead described as a "Level-5 Shushu" without explanation.
Winx Club
Daphne, Bloom's older sister, was killed by the Ancestral Witches and was referred to as having been dead/killed/deceased, even by the ones who killed her, until season 5 where they said she was cursed into becoming a disembodied spirit instead.
An incredibly infamous example in season 8. The Trix were sisters (confirmed to be triplets by Word of God and repeatedly stated to be so within the series) who desired to rule the entire Magic Dimension, but in the last few episodes of Season 8, Icy is changed to have only one mutual sister: Sapphire, who was turned into a fox cub by a shaman witch when her home planet Dyamond got cursed, causing Icy to vow to become the most powerful witch ever to save her sister and home world. This is an especially egregious example of a retcon since:
(1) In the season 8 flashback, Icy is shown to be a young adult, possibly 16 at the youngest, but in season 1, she was an 18-year-old senior witch. Bloom was 1-year-old when Domino fell and it only faded from the minds of the people because it had been destroyed for 15 years by the time the show starts. For Icy's retconned backstory to be true, it would have to mean that Dyamond was conquered not too long before the start of the show, so there's no way people could forget about Dyamond it if was conquered recently and there's no way Icy wouldn't have been recognized as the Princess of Dyamond. If not as herself, then people would mistake her for Sapphire. There's also the fact that Faragonda and Griselda remembered the Earth Fairies when most other people didn't and they disappeared at around the same time Domino fell, so they would definitely be aware of some planet called Dyamond if some witch took it over recently.
(2) In the same flashback in season 8, Icy is shown to have had natural curly blonde hair before changing it to straight and silver-blue, but in the season 3 episode The Black Willow's Tears when Icy, Darcy, and Stormy are regressed to children, Icy is shown with natural straight silver-blue hair.note .
(3) Her actions (knowingly endangering the lives of/attempting to murder people for fun, which started as early as episode 3; stating she liked being evil and was actually annoyed at being referred to as anything less; freezing a fairy's wings off for trying to escape her; assaulting children, Flora's sister Miele and Mitzi's sister Macy, who happen to be little sisters like Sapphire) and motivations (wanting to become powerful for the repeated explicit purpose of conquering the Magic Dimension) ever since the beginning of season 1 do not align whatsoever with what season 8 is trying to establish her goals to be.
(4) Icy claims to not be powerful enough to undo the spell the shaman witch placed on Sapphire... except she has been shown to be skilled at transmutation, having transformed Mirta into a pumpkin in season 1 and (along with Darcy and Stormy) turned Griffin into a crow in season 6. There's also the fact that Icy, Darcy, and Stormy have been receiving powerful upgrades throughout the series and in seasons 6 and 7, have been shown to be stronger than the Winx on several occasions, becoming their strongest in season 7 when they achieved Shape-Shifting Witch forms derived from the power of magical animals, so the excuse of Icy not being powerful enough falls flat.
(5) Near the end of season 8, Icy decides to help the Winx because she "can't stand to see another world crumble" even though when she revealed Bloom's heritage to her in season 1, she smugly told her how the Ancestral Witches, her ancestors, destroyed her home world Domino and throughout the series had been (along with Darcy and Stormy) allying with villains whose plans involved destroying worlds (Ex. Tritannus) with no objections and was attracted to Valtor, someone who destroyed Domino alongside her ancestors, because of how evil he was.
(6) And most importantly, the creator of the show, Iginio Straffi, actually had the story all planned out and was going to end the series after season 3 (with the first movie being the "grand finale" of the series), but since Winx became such a cash cow franchise, it got renewed for a fourth season and continued after that, so it cannot be said that this was planned from the start. Hell, Straffi himself and much of the production crew that worked on the previous seasons weren't even part of the production for season 8.

Retcon / Real Life
Politics/Government 
When Seti I created the Abydos kinglist, which listed all of Egypt's pharaohs from King Menes, several were conspicuously missing: Hatshepsut, who had been retconned after her death by Thutmose III; Akhenaten, the Heretic King; and Tutankhamun and Ay, presumably because of association with Akhenaten. Instead, Horemheb's reign dates from the end of Amenhotep III's. 40 years after Hatshepsut's death, Thutmose III tried to erase all evidence that she had ever been pharaoh — we don't know why, but it may have been that a female pharaoh shook up the status quo too much.
In 1660, the restored Royalist regime in England declared that the eleven years of republican rule had been "invalid" since no monarch had been there to give assent to the various laws parliament had enacted. A legal fiction was created where Charles II's reign was backdated to 1649 and the 1649-1660 Cromwellian era was described not as a republic but as an "interregnum" (i.e. a period where a kingdom has no sitting monarch). Very few modern historians accept 1649 as the beginning of Charles' rule, but the term "interregnum" is still often used to describe the Commonwealth period even though the monarchy did not technically exist during those years. Charles was proclaimed king by the Scottish parliament only a few days after his father's execution, and was even crowned at Scone before he had to flee to the Continent, so technically, his reign as King of Scotland could be dated to 1649. The throne of England was unambiguously vacant for eleven years, however.
Similarly, the Bourbon Restoration decided to ignore both the First French Republic and Napoleon's empire. They declared the son of Louis XVI (who had died of illness while imprisoned) to have been King Louis XVII despite never having ruled or even been crowned, and Louis XVIII dated his own reign from Louis XVII's death in 1795, instead of 1814, when he actually came to power. And when Bonaparte's nephew Louis-Napoleon took over in 1852, he took the regnal name of Napoleon III, with Bonaparte's son termed Napoleon II despite never ruling.
Henry VII officially dated his reign from the day before the Battle of Bosworth, i.e., the day before he finally became the last man standing in a decades-long game of Kingmaker. This was a very smart move as he could then strip the lands and titles of any lords who'd fought on the opposite side of the battle for treason against the King. It was also an incredibly unfair one, because it meant that people fighting to defend the crowned and anointed King of England (Richard III) against a rebel (Henry) were traitors.
Before World War I, "The Great War" referred to The Napoleonic Wars. Similarly, before 1991, the "Gulf War" referred to the 1980-88 war between Iraq and Iran.
Josef Stalin:
Stalin was constantly re-writing the history of the Bolshevik revolution and the early USSR to take credit for opponents' accomplishments or to ghost them out entirely, even when the resulting narrative made no sense. A few of his successors continued the practice.
He's also known to have ordered the doctoring of images, although the manipulation now looks pretty crude. One can find photos where Trotsky and others Stalin had killed have been removed, and other photos where he is shown next to Lenin as the latter fell sick and died (even though at this time Lenin had started to dislike Stalin).
It was rumored during the space race that many Soviet cosmonauts had actually perished on failed missions, then were edited out of the group pictures taken with the equipment. In reality, there's no concrete proof of earlier, failed missions, but there IS proof of cosmonauts edited out of photos after public disgrace or loss of political favor.
He would also have children remove the faces of kids who had been killed or taken away by the regime. Nineteen Eighty Four was NOT exaggerating.
After Stalin's death, a lot of accomplishments attributed to Stalin were erased. Stephen Jay Gould once reported reading a version of the Soviet Encyclopaedia that completely removed Stalin from history, which is kind of like trying to sell the Star Wars original trilogy as "The Jabba The Hutt Show!"
Leonid Brezhnev in the 1970s gave himself a lot of medals for alleged accomplishments that he probably had nothing to do with. He got 4 gold medals of the Hero of Soviet Union (more than anyone else and as many as Marshal Zhukov), supposedly for his accomplishments during World War 2, even though he would have been too junior to have done what he got the medals for.
After World War II, French President François Miterrand (a former member of the Resistance) declared that the Vichy Regime had never been more than a puppet government and Charles de Gaulle was to be recorded as the true and rightful head of state for the duration of the war, even though he spent four of those year in exile in England. This has not prevented many later historians from debating which city was functioning as the true wartime capital of France, London, Brazzavillenote , or Vichy.
In the early hours of April 1, 1964, the Brazilian military carried out a coup d'etát and began a 20-year dictatorship. Predictably, they retconned the date of the coup to March 31.
Ron Ziegler, Richard Nixon's press secretary during the unfolding of the Watergate scandal, famously undid his previous statements on the burglary. The White House had previously dismissed allegations of connections to the events at the Watergate, only for Nixon to reveal in April 1973 that there was a possible connection. Ziegler then sought to reconcile the White House's previous and current positions by invalidating the former. (He also later said that "mistakes were made" and that he was "overenthusiastic" in attacking the Washington Post's reporting.)
Ziegler: This is the operative statement. The others are inoperative.
Common practice in North Korea, especially with the details of the lives of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il and of The Korean War. One story of Kim Jong Il's birth was that North Korean soldiers stationed in the mountains near his claimed birth-site had a premonition that something wonderful was happening at the time he was born. To mark the occasion, they carved the date into a tree. This tree was then shown to visiting foreigners... until a Japanese botanist pointed out there's no way anyone could have carved something in that tree on that date because the tree was not old enough to have existed at the time. The tree was silently cut down and never referred to again.
Commonwealth countries that recognize the British monarch as head of state, such as Australia and Canada, originally did so as colonies, as it was only natural for the ruler of the imperial power to also be the nominal head of all colonial governments. As the colonies became more autonomous and self-governing, imperial law became more complicated, and when Elizabeth II ascended to the throne, she was proclaimed to be the independent queen of over a dozen independent monarchies (i.e.; Queen of Australia of the Australian monarchy), rather than the imperial British queen. Commonwealth countries now frequently retcon old British monarchs in this way ("Former Kings of Canada") which further muddles the evolution of the relationship. Furthermore, the queen's regnal name in all the countries she reigns over is 'Elizabeth II'. With the possible exception of Canada (there was a tiny English settlement in Canada during Elizabeth I's reign), she is the first monarch called Elizabeth in all her countries except Britain itself (and even that doesn't hold true in Scotland).
In the 1990s, the Progressive Conservative Party of the Canadian territory of Yukon changed its name to the Yukon Party, to avoid association with the unpopular federal Progressive Conservative Party. In its official online history of itself, it avoids mentioning its old name, and refers instead refers to retconned events like the election of the "first Yukon Party government" in the 1970s.
The United States Supreme Court sometimes admits it decided a case incorrectly and reverses a prior decision. That means the old decision no longer applies.
The 1896 case of Plessy v. Ferguson decided that having segregated facilities for blacks and whites was okay as long as they were equivalent, the "separate but equal" clause (the facilities for blacks were never equal; they were always substandard). This lasted over 50 years until Brown v. Board of Education was decided in 1954, finding segregation illegal.
The court originally ruled the first 8 amendments to the constitution (the Bill of Rights) only applied to the Federal Government, not to the states, and that the 14th Amendment didn't change this. Then later it was decided that the 14th Amendment did apply to the states, as did most of the Bill of Rights.
In 1976 in Doe v. Commonwealth's Attorney of Richmond, the Court upheld the sodomy law of the Commonwealth of Virginia as constitutional. In 1986, Bowers v. Hardwick said that a state could make sodomy (anal sex) illegal. In 2003, Lawrence v. Texas stated that Bowers was "wrongly decided" and that consensual non-commercial sodomy was legal for adults.
The 2015 case Obergefell v. Hodges overturned a previous ruling in the 1972 case Baker v. Nelson which stated that two people of the same gender could not be legally married to each other.
Usually averted in the case of ex post facto laws (i.e laws applying retroactively). The US constitution specifically forbids it, and most developed countries have laws prohibiting it as well.
    Science 
The 2006 reclassification of Pluto as a dwarf planet retconned decades of science textbooks. It was starting to get embarrassing as more and more trans-Neptunian objects were discovered that were of a similar size (one of them, Eris, is larger) but were deemed too small to call planets. The main argument for keeping Pluto in the class of planets was "cultural" (read: sentimental), so the "dwarf planet" term was a cultural compromise with a scientific bonus. Culturally, Pluto's significance as the first Kuiper Belt Object discovered and as one of the largest was still recognized (it became the Trope Namer for a new sub-class of KBOs / dwarf planets, the plutoids). Scientifically, Pluto was no longer complicating the IAU's terrestrial planet definition and the "upgrade" of Ceres from asteroid to dwarf planet resolved the paradox of the latter being the only Asteroid Belt Object massive enough to have overcome hydrostatic equilibrium and taken on a spherical shape note . Like Pluto, Ceres was considered a planet when it was first discovered in 1801 but "downgraded" soon afterwards when other large objects were found in the same general orbit.
    Sports 
In athletics it is common to strip an athlete or even an entire program of its honors and records retroactively if the subject is found guilty of a serious enough violation. The justification for this — especially in cases of doping, match-fixing, or bribery — is that an achievement which did not occur on a fair playing field was never an achievement to begin with.
All of cyclist Lance Armstrong's results from after August of 1998 were wiped from the official stats in 2012 when evidence that Armstrong had engaged in systematic doping came to light. Among the titles he lost were 7 Tour de France victories, an Olympic bronze medal, 2 Criterium du Dauphiné victories, and a victory at tour of Switzerland.
Amongst other punishments meted out by the NCAA, all 112 of Pennsylvania State University's football victories between 1998 and 2011 (including 5 bowl games) were scrubbed from the official records after it was revealed that university officials had helped cover up a former assistant coach's involvement in child sexual abuse. As a result, former head coach Joe Paterno lost his status as the winningest Division I head coach, dropping from 409 victories to 298. This decision was eventually reversed, however.
An arguably more notable NCAA punishment came in February 2018, when the University of Louisville lost 123 men's basketball wins from 2011 to 2015. This included a national title in 2013, making the Cardinals the first Division I school to be stripped of a basketball title (men's or women's). The sanctions stemmed from an episode in which a program staffer paid a local madam thousands of dollars to provide strippers and prostitutes for players and recruits.
In both 2005 and 2006, Juventus won Serie A, the top football (soccer) league in Italy. Then the story broke that it was one of four teams involved in many instances of match-fixing. The 2005 season was simply wiped from the record books, and the 2006 title was awarded to third-place Inter Milan after Juventus and second-place AC Milan were disqualified due to the scandal.
Marseilles won Ligue 1, the top French division, in 1993, but were subsequently stripped of the title after it was revealed that they had engaged in match-fixing, and their results were expunged from the record. Runners-up Paris Saint-Germain were now considered to have finished first, but bizarrely were not awarded the title, which was simply left unattributed.
In 2003, London-based English football team Wimbledon FC controversially relocated to Milton Keynes (which is not even remotely close to Wimbledon). After being told by the Football League that this would require them to change their name, they became "MK Dons" in 2004 (but legally and organisationally were still the same club). In the meantime, London-based Wimbledon fans, furious that their team had been moved, founded a new side, "AFC Wimbledon". After several legal cases, eventually the two teams came to a settlement in 2007, under which MK Dons was retconned as a new club formed in 2004, while AFC Wimbledon became the Spiritual Successor of Wimbledon FC.
In 2000, Romanian gymnast Andreea Raducan was stripped of the gold medal she had won in the women's all-around after testing positive for a banned substance. This one has been the subject of extreme controversy because it involved an over-the-counter cold medicine; not only was the violation completely unintentional, but the effect on her performance was negligible (the substance was later removed from the banned substance list because the claim that it was performance-enhancing was found to be questionable at best). Despite acknowledging both of these facts, the International Olympic Committee refused to reinstate the medal on appeal, and the official record still does not recognize Raducan as having won the event.
In 2008, it was discovered that Chinese gymnast Dong Fangxiao, a member of the 2000 Chinese women's team, had been in violation of minimum age requirements and had falsified her age to conceal this fact. As a consequence, all of her scores were invalidated, resulting in the Chinese team being stripped of their bronze medal from the team competition. In 2010, the bronze medal was re-awarded to the United States team, who had initially placed fourth behind the Chinese.note 
In the women's floor exercise final at the 1968 Olympics, the judges retroactively raised Soviet gymnast Larisa Petrik's score from the preliminary round several days earlier to the exact number needed to put her in a tie with Czechoslovak gymnast Věra Čáslavská, who would have won gold outright based on the original scores. Unsurprisingly, this was more than a little controversial.
The Brazilian football championship officially started in 1971. Then in 2010, the Football Confederation decided to turn winners of two previous tournaments Brazilian champions as well... even if it meant two winners in two years (as both those tournaments had editions in '67 and '68) and champions with only two games.
There are also a few examples in major U.S. sports leagues...
NFL: In 1996, Cleveland Browns owner Art Modell moved the team to Baltimore, renaming it the Ravens. The move proved so controversial that as part of a league-brokered settlement of a court case brought by the city of Cleveland, the Browns' history and records remained in that city, to be taken up by a "new" Browns team that began play in 1999. So, as far as the NFL is concerned, the Ravens are an expansion team that began play in 1996, even though it had the same ownership and management structure as the "old" Browns.
This precedent was followed by Major League Soccer, though without the rancor and legal action, when the San Jose Earthquakes moved to become the Houston Dynamo after the 2005 season. The Quakes' history and records were left behind for a new ownership group that emerged in 2007, with the team returning to MLS the next year.
After the 2001–02 season, the NBA's Charlotte Hornets moved to New Orleans, keeping the team name. A new Charlotte franchise, the Bobcats, joined the league in 2004. Eventually, the Hornets changed their name in 2013 to the more Louisiana-centric Pelicans. A year later, the Bobcats, now owned by Michael Jordan, reclaimed the Hornets name, along with the history of the 1988–2002 Charlotte Hornets.
In NASCAR, the various racing series have changed names several times due to changes in sponsorship; commentators discussing past races (until recently) pretty much always referred to them by the current names, no matter what the series was called at the time. For instance, it could be mentioned that Dale Earnhardt won seven Monster Energy Cup championships, even though when he won them they were called Winston Cup championships. Similarly, Richard Petty's seven Cup championships consist of two Grand National and five Winston Cup titles, and Jimmie Johnson's seven consist of two Nextel Cup and five Sprint Cup titles.
However, an informal consensus has emerged in most media (especially those that don't televise NASCAR) to use just "Cup Series" when discussing past races in the top series. Similarly, the third-level Gander Outdoors Truck Series is typically known generically as the "Truck Series" (since all of that series' names have ended with those two words). The second-level series, however, holds to this trope, with the then-current name (now "Xfinity Series") typically used even in historic references. The term "Buschwhackers" (referring to Cup Series teams that race the secondary series for more track time), referring to its former name of the Busch Series, is still common though.
A couple of major international events in women's sports have been subject to this trope:
When FIFA sponsored its first official world championship events for women's football/soccer in 1991, it didn't want to use the "World Cup" name, instead calling it the "1st FIFA World Championship for Women's Football for the M&M's Cup". By the time the next such event rolled around in 1995, FIFA decided to officially use the "World Cup" name, and declared the 1991 event to have been the first FIFA Women's World Cup.
The rugby union event historically known as the Women's Rugby World Cup and now officially the "Rugby World Cup" (for women) has an even stranger history in this regard. The first two events, in 1991 and 1994, were not officially sanctioned by the sport's governing body, then known as the International Rugby Football Board and now as World Rugby. The governing body began officially backing the event in 1998, but did not officially recognize the 1991 and 1994 events as World Cups until 2009.
    Other 
Some automobile magazines do not consider the Volkswagen Logus to be in continuity with the Ford Escort line, despite being related to it. Why say it's not related, when it uses an adaptation of the Ford Escort chassis?
After ending production of the Lincoln Continental Mark II in 1957, from 1958-60 the top trim level of regular Lincoln was called Contenental Mark III and IV through 1960; from 1961 the only car the division produced was the Lincoln Continental (no "Mark" designation) until 1968 when they branded their new personal-luxury coupe "Mark III" meaning the previous Marks III and IV somehow didn't count. Within Ford Motor Company, there was for a short period of time a discussion about taking the Continental out of the Lincoln mark and positioning it as its own luxury mark to compete with Cadillac; with the failure of the Edsel (positioned to compete with the mid-level GM marks such as Buick and Oldsmobile), this was dropped fairly quickly.
Pope Gregory XIII decreed that the day after Thursday, 4 October 1582 would be not Friday, 5 October, but Friday, 15 October 1582. This was due to a miscalculation of days in the Julian calendar that had caused the Vernal Equinox to seemingly change from the traditional March 21 to March 11. Since the Church scheduled Easter based on the first day of Spring, the retcon was seen as necessary.
In 2006 Sun dropped the major version number on Java to better reflect the maturity, scalability, and security, of the Java platform. Java 1.5.0 became Java 5. In addition, Sun reverted the names of the run time environment and development kit. The Java Development kit went back to JDK from Java 2 SDK and the run time environment went back to JRE from J2RE.
Sun also did this with their Sun OS/Solaris Unix operating system. Sun OS versions 1-4 were retroactively declared Solaris version 1, while Sun OS version 5 was Solaris 2. Later, after a number of 2.x releases, the major version number was dropped.
In January 2001, Billboard magazine shrank its Hot Country Songs chart from 75 to 60 positions, and in doing so, reset each song's tally for total number of weeks spent on the chart to count only weeks spent at #60 or higher. This created an interesting case with Gary Allan's "Right Where I Need to Be", which had been floating in the 61-75 range for several weeks in 2000, but finally managed to breach Top 40 just before the change. On the first chart of 2001, its total number of weeks was slashed from 23 to 16, leading to an eventual ascent to the top 5, even though counting those weeks would have made it the longest-running country chart single of the 2000-2010 decade (Billboard instead counts "Baby Girl" by Sugarland as this particular record-holder).
Expungement of a criminal record is considered this from a legal standpoint. For purposes of the legal/judicial system, an expunged offense is treated as though it never happened.
During trials, judges can (of their own volition or at the request of an attorney) order a statement to be stricken from the official record and/or instruct a jury to disregard it. The latter situation in particular is somewhat controversial, however; some people view it as a Subversion, noting that the jury will still remember the statement, and that even if jurors try to disregard it, there's no way to entirely prevent a stricken statement from affecting their unconscious perceptions.

Series / Breaking Bad
"Some straight like you, giant stick up his ass, all of a sudden, age — what, sixty? He's just gonna break bad?"note 
—Jesse Pinkman
Breaking Bad is an AMC neo-western crime drama series which debuted in January 2008 with a seven-episode season (shortened because of the writers' strike) and soon found itself renewed for a full-run second season. The show ran for five seasons in total, with its finale airing on September 29, 2013.
Walter White (Bryan Cranston), a high school chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, New Mexico with unrecognized genius in his field, receives a diagnosis of inoperable lung cancer after a meager lifetime of playing it safe. His world falls apart when he realizes that his medical bills will destroy his family's future: In addition to raising a son with cerebral palsy (RJ Mitte), his wife Skyler (Anna Gunn) has a baby on the way.
After participating in a ride-along with his DEA brother-in-law Hank Schrader (Dean Norris), Walter sees a former student of his, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), escape a drug bust through dumb luck. Seeing a potential ladder into the methamphetamine market, Walter entraps Jesse and makes him a proposition: Walter will use his chemical expertise and Jesse's drug connections to manufacture crystal meth and make them both rich, thus saving Walt's family from financial ruin.
Their product, nicknamed "Blue Sky" for its bluish tint, makes waves in the drug trade for its purity — a benefit of having a peerless chemist designing the drug. But their work attracts the worst kind of attention from both local drug pushers and law enforcement. The pair find themselves juggling production problems, rival suppliers, psychotic distributors, and federal investigations — but they also wrestle with personal problems as the work takes a toll on their loved ones and psyches.
A prequel centering on Ascended Extra Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk) debuted in Febuary 2015 under the title Better Call Saul. It delves into the lives of the Alberquerque underworld before Walter White. Jonathan Banks and Giancarlo Esposito reprise their roles as Mike and Gus, respectively. A Netflix sequel movie, El Camino, was released in October 2019 and wrapped up Jesse's story, serving as Grand Finale of the entire Breaking Bad universe.
Sony has an official Spanish-language remake of the show Metástasis. The show follows the same general premise of Breaking Bad, but alters specific details about the setting and characters so audiences in Mexico and South America better understand the story. Due to its following the standard scheduling format for telenovelas, Metástasis was able to run daily without the original series' weekly schedule or inter-season hiatuses. As a result, it premiered on Unimás on June 8, 2014 and aired its finale just under three months later.
This show has a Recap page that Needs Wiki Magic Love. You can also vote on your favorite episode here.
We will only Walter White out spoilers for the fourth and fifth seasons (and even those aren't 100% guaranteed). If you do not want to know what happens in those seasons, we suggest you tread lightly, bitch!

Nightmare Fuel / Breaking Bad
In general 
The Cousins. Their stoic, Ax-Crazy nature, their brutal murders, and their thirst for revenge for the sake of family... both packaged with a giant silver axe. These are two people you do not want to cross.
Tuco Salamanca. He's a Moodswinging Psychopathic Manchild who beats Jesse to a pulp when he first meets him, murders his own enforcer for finishing his sentence without a shred of guilt, and kidnaps Walter and Jesse and intends to force them to make meth for the cartel, probably for the rest of their lives. He is, in Walt's own words, "an insane, degenerate piece of filth", and almost always hopped up on meth. If it isn't obvious already, this is definitely not a man you would ever want to cross paths with, or even attempt to piss off. It says a lot that he is considered one of the most brutal villains on the show.
Gus Fring. Philanthropist, businessman, community member, drug kingpin, sociopathic murderer, the devil in sheep's clothing.
Todd Alquist is Nightmare Fuel made flesh. Behind this average-looking man hides a cold-blooded killer with no sense of empathy. His second appearance is him shooting a kid on the spot, without warning, without so much as asking his bosses' permission. Several episodes later, he beats Jesse to a pulp, imprisons him in an underground dungeon, and enslaves him to meth-cooking, all while holding Andrea and Brock, two innocent civilians, hostage. When Jesse tries to escape, instead of shooting him just as Jesse begs him to do, he shoots Andrea as a warning while leaving Brock alive as leverage. And all after giving him ice cream for a good day's work.
The Neo-Nazis, and Jack Welker himself. They're... they're just too good at what they do. Shank ten different people all locked up in prison within a 2 minute window? No problem. Execute Declan's entire drug gang in a matter of seconds? Easily pulled off. Murder two DEA agents and bury them in the desert? Done. Torture a man and enslave him to force him to cook meth? Piece of cake. Break into Skyler White's house to blackmail her despite the fact that there are police watching the house and getting away without being caught? Did it already. Murder Andrea Cantillo directly in front of her house and saying they'll have no problem tracking down her son Brock and doing the same to him? They'll do it.
Want to know something else? The Aryan Brotherhood, the group that Jack Welker's gang is based on, is the most vicious prison gang in the United States. They only make up 0.1% of the prison population, they are responsible for up to 30 percent of murders in the federal prisons. Truth in Television, indeed.
    Season 1 
Walt and Jesse, after killing a drug dealer, attempt to dispose of his body by dissolving it in hydrofluoric acid. Unfortunately, Jesse is too impatient to go out and buy a plastic bin to use as per Walt's advice, preferring to use the bathtub instead. What results is the acid eating through the bathtub and the floor beneath it, resulting in a vile little pile of half-dissolved, gelatinized drug-dealer remains (with chunks of bone) falling right through into the hallway below. It says a lot about this show that this same moment is listed under Funny Moments.
Walt strangling Krazy-8 with a bike lock. Although the way he deduced what he'll do was awesome, it still gives a scary glimpse of Walt's inner ego, Heisenberg.
Tuco beating No Doze to death for talking out of turn. Along with him nearly beating Jesse to death when it seemed like he would act compliant before.
    Season 2 
The opening teaser of the season. The eye sucked into the filter, the charred teddy bear, the impure whiteness of the pool, the lack of explanation, the sirens wailing in the background... Similar scenes are shown in other cold opens throughout the season with the same features, revealing a little more with each time it is shown before culminating in the season finale, when we are shown workers in hazmat suits working in the area around Walt's house, with two corpses covered up nearby, suggesting that Walt and Jesse died in an accident while cooking meth. The fact that Walt and Jesse survive to the end of the season and what we saw was the aftermath of a mid-air collision between two planes, indirectly caused by Walt, brings little comfort.
Walt's borderline rape of Skyler. He stops thank god but just imagine if that was in Season 5 and his Heisenberg side fully took over.
"Negro y Azul". "What's the matter, Schrader?! You act like you never saw a severed human head on a tortoise before!" Then boom. And Hank gets a big BSOD as a result. The aftermath of the explosion is horrifying to watch as well; we see several officers on the ground, bloody and injured/dead. The most disturbing part has to be the anguished, agonized screams of Vanco after getting his leg blown off at the knee. Also, the audio is dampened, implying Hank has been temporarily deafened by the blast as he rushes to put a tourniquet on Vanco's stump.
The couple who rob Skinny Pete in "Breakage" and own the creepy, disgusting house in "Peekaboo". Doubles as a Tear Jerker since the couple has a small child who lives in these terrible conditions and is blissfully unaware of it. Spooge and his lady basically are an idea of how drugs can ruin your physical health too, given their appearances.
Also, the room where the child sleeps has a lock on the door.
That horrible noise when the woman drops the ATM on her husband's head...
In "Over", the way that Walter says "Stay out of my territory", and the facial expression that goes along with it are not just scary to the drug dealers to whom he says it, but to the audience as well.
The opening of "Mandala". Combo gets stared down by a pair of thugs from their car, starts getting nervous, and then gets shot by a little kid, not even in his teens, who was biking around the neighborhood. They share a horrified expression, then as Combo tries to run, the kid guns him down in the street.
Jane's death. Holy crap. It comes out of nowhere, with Walt attempting to wake up Jesse and accidentally moving Jane onto her back in the process. We then get to witness 30 seconds of Jane spasming and choking on her own vomit, while Walt just stands there, unwilling to do anything.
The One-Eyed, Nightmare Bear Stare from the burned, stuffed toy fished out the pool... creepy as all hell. Not to mention the loose, travelling eye (although, that crosses into funny often enough: creepy funny).
The plane crash itself. Say what you will about it, but it is still not a pretty sight to behold. The fact that over 100 people died because of it does not make it better.
    Season 3 
The season premiere and the Establishing Character Moment for the cousins. They enter what is clearly a cartel controlled village where the meth cooks are crawling. Okay, they must be subjugated, but then the cousins join them crawling to church. Okay, they must be wrapped up in some religious fever, which they are, praying to Santa Muerte for the death of Walter. Okay...that took a turn, and shows just what heavy hitters we are dealing with.
"I. F. T.": Tortuga's Cruel and Unusual Death in where we get to watch his head being severed in gruesome fashion by the cousins, earlier in season 2 you get to see what happens to him with his head attached to the tortoise that was originally offered as a gift.
The shootout between Hank and the Cousins in "One Minute". Dear God. Hank is unarmed, vulnerable, and is given a minute to try and escape from two cartel hitmen. Ramming Leonel into the back of a car, he is shot to hell before Marco decides to try and kill him with an axe. He barely survives after shooting him in the head and the episode ends.
"I See You":
The Reveal that Leonel had his legs amputated. And then he starts crawling across the floor...
Gus' chilling phone conversation with Juan Bolsa, where we fully see the extent of his plans, as well as the sense of calm satisfaction as he hears Bolsa's Villainous Breakdown and being gunned down by the federales. At this point, his Affably Evil persona starts to disappear, and the Magnificent Bastard that lies beneath and eventually becomes Walt's greatest enemy begins to emerge.
They may have deserved it, but in "Half Measures", the drug dealers get ran over by Walt when Jesse tries to kill them. You get to see their bodies get dislocated as they are ran over, and a quick glimpse of their faces beforehand.
    Season 4 
Gus in "Box Cutter", climaxing with him slitting Victor's throat with the titular instrument, grasping him tightly while letting copious amounts of blood splash on everyone, all while giving a cold, emotionless, Terminator-like stare. It's obvious that Victor was probably going to be killed seeing how he was witnessed at Gale Boetticher's apartment, but the way he does it is enough to unsettle the audience, and even Mike.
What really makes this scene extremely cringe-inducing is just how disturbingly realistic Victor's death looks. I'm sorry, were you expecting characters to simply drop dead from having their throats slit like you see in most media? HA HA HA — fuck you, here's a poor guy thrashing and squirming for a long, uncomfortable amount of time while the gaping gash in his neck is held open like he's a human PEZ dispenser.
Gus: Well? Get back to work.
From "Cornered":
The opening truck heist. Like in "Bullet Points", you have the ruthless cartel hitmen ambush a Los Pollos Hermanos refrigerated truck. The way they off the guards in this one (seeing how the previous attack was foiled by Mike) is to lock them in the back of the truck, hook up a tube from the exhaust pipe to the ventilation system, then lay on the gas pedal to suffocate them to death. You can see the guards' desperation as they make a last-ditch attempt to shoot out the doors to escape only to be overcome by the fumes.
Walter White's defining "The One Who Knocks" speech. At this point, Skyler is initially scared out of her mind that her husband has gotten in way too deep in this "meth business" and has doomed himself and their entire immediate family. Walt, his pride offended by his wife's clueless yet perfectly reasonable assumption that Walt is still just a timid, basically harmless high school chemistry teacher who couldn't possibly understand, let alone overcome, the evil forces arrayed against them, reasserts his dignity and sets Skyler straight with the Badass Boast of all Badass Boasts. The shocked, utterly horrified look on Skyler's face when it's over tells you all you need to know: she no longer has any idea who the hell she's married to.
Walt pays three of Gus's Spanish-speaking laundromat workers to clean his meth club just to spite Gus. Then, Tyrus comes to put the women on a "bus to Honduras." Of course, Walt immediately senses something off and pleads Tyrus to have Gus only blame him and not take it out on the workers. Tyrus responds "he does," implying that Gus may be sensible enough to not blame the three innocent workers but he will probably kill them due to circumstances.
"Hermanos": Gus' friend and co-founder of Los Pollos Hermanos Max Arciniega being headshotted and Killed Mid-Sentence by Hector right before his eyes. Not only is Gus restrained from attacking him, but he is practically tortured and forced to look at his dead companion. One can imagine the pain that he lived with for the next 20 years.
"Salud":
Don Eladio:
If you spill even one drop, I will cut off your hand.
The sight of Don Eladio and his captains dropping like flies at poolside from the poisoned tequila is quite disturbing, even if it is a moment of triumph for Gus. The women's screams and how they book it out of there only adds to the horror. Sure, they are Cartel and had murdered Gus's former partner in the exact same spot 20 years earlier, but the way Gus and Mike orchestrate a mass execution of nearly 20 men will leave you speechless. Jesse's reaction (even though he is on THEIR SIDE), reflects this.
The ending of "Crawl Space". HOLY FUCKING SHIT. Rushing home to retrieve his hidden cache of money, Walter tears apart his and Skyler's hiding place — under the house — to find a fraction of the money he needs. Skyler then tells him she had to give the money to Ted Beneke. Walter realizes that his wife and children are about to be murdered by Gus, and he has no apparent way out. Just the first noise he makes is enough to haunt the viewer for a long time. Screaming as if watching his family die right in front of his own eyes, Walter tenses in a fetal position and appears to be sobbing, but he's actually laughing his ass off. Followed by Skyler taking a phone call from a panicked and terrified Marie who has just learned that assassins are coming after Hank. While Walt is still insanely laughing in the background. The final shot of the episode chillingly resembles Walter buried alive, and a piercing whistle over the soundtrack sounds like the last bit of air leaving his lungs. It's no wonder that many fans call this the moment where Walter White 'dies' and permanently becomes Heisenberg.
Gus's threat to Walt before his mad dash back home is especially chilling.
Gus: I will kill your wife. I will kill your son. I will kill your infant daughter.
"Face Off":
The Wham Shot, revealing that Walt poisoned Brock. It's quite unnerving watching earlier episodes in the series after this, knowing how much of a ruthless monster Walt eventually becomes. The fact that it's punctuated by the G minor chord at the end of ''Black'' does not help with the creepiness.
The ultimate fate of Gus: Half of his face gets blown off, but we "get" to see him walk out of an exploded room looking like Harvey Dent before he suddenly drops dead. The entire right half of his skull is exposed, covered only by a bloody, chunky, torn stretch of flesh, his eye socket entirely hollow — save for a twitching severed muscle cord.
After Gus drops dead, the camera shows a brief glimpse of the carnage in the room. There are no signs of whatever remains of Tyrus and Hector, except for a single severed leg lying in the middle of the room.
    Season 5 
Peter Schuler's suicide in "Madrigal"; he puts one end of a defibrillator on his heart and the other end in his mouth. Yeesh.
Skyler's attempted drowning in "Fifty-One". Made all the more disturbing by the Dissonant Serenity with which she does it.
Almost everything Walt says to Skyler in Season 5, sounds more like a kidnapper attempting to induce Stockholm Syndrome, especially the lines meant to sound loving. It is disturbing, to say the least. Lampshaded by Skyler: "I don't need to hear any of your bullshit rationales."
The death of the boy in "Dead Freight" who accidentally stumbles upon a heist. Not to mention that he's dissolved in acid in the beginning of the next episode, meaning that his body will never be found and his family will never know what happened to him.
Walt during "Say My Name". Intimidating two experienced drug-dealers to work for him, by using Gus Fring as an example? Check. Getting a Hair-Trigger Temper during Jesse's calm reasoning why they need to leave the drug business? Check. Him shooting Mike in cold blood when Mike gives a well deserved "The Reason You Suck" Speech? Check.
The Prison Montage in "Gliding Over All": nine gang-stabbings topped off by a man being burned alive. There's not even a single Gory Discretion Shot, either. You see every second of the killings, including the awful first shanking that seems to last forever. The song that's playing does not make it better.
From the beginning of "Blood Money": Hank leaving Walt's house after realizing he was Heisenberg, and the massive panic attack he has on the drive home that, at first, seems like a heart attack!
The last sentence in the exchange between Walt and Hank after the latter notes that he doesn't even know who he's talking to.
Walt: If you don't know who I am, maybe your best course of action is to tread lightly.
Made lighter by the fact that the worst Walt wants to do to Hank is to force him to be quiet, implied by the confession tape. He would never kill Hank no matter what.
The last few minutes of "Confessions". Seeing Jesse totally fly off the handle and attempt to burn down Walt's house is utterly terrifying. It's made all the more intense by the music that plays during that particular scene.
In "Rabid Dog", Jesse firmly establishing the outside view of Walt as The Dreaded to Hank and Gomez. Considering Jesse originally thought of Walter as nothing more than an annoying Jerkass teacher who randomly decided to break bad, this is pretty unsettling.
Jesse: What if it's about... killing me? Y'know, getting me out in the open? Hire some uh, some clock tower guy or have me sit on a poison needle, y'know?
Hank: Nothing's going to happen to you. I mean, the plaza is one of the most wide open public places in all of Albuquerque, it's the middle of the day and Agent Gomez and I will be there with you.
Jesse: Look, you two guys are just... guys, okay? Mr. White? He's The Devil. Y'know, he is — he's smarter than you, he's luckier than you. Whatever you think is supposed to happen, I'm telling you, the exact, reverse, opposite is gonna happen! Okay?"
Almost every minute of "Ozymandias":
Hank and Gomez's deaths as their corpses are dragged into a grave carelessly. And the people involved plan to keep that a secret.
The fate of Jesse, who is tortured and forced into slavery by Uncle Jack and Todd. His worn-out clothing, his untamed hair and beard, his broken spirit... if you didn't have a fear of being kidnapped, you probably do now.
Walt blaming Jesse for the shootout at To'hajiilee, having him dragged kicking and screaming from under his car and almost executed before his eyes. Then he gives Todd his blessing to torture any information given to Hank and Gomez out of Jesse before killing him. Then telling Jesse that he let Jane choke to death when he could have saved her. Realizing how much Walt has betrayed him and for how long takes all the strength out of Jesse. This is all especially jarring after the cold open in which we are given a flashback to their first cook at the same location a year earlier, reminding us of the now ancient teacher-student relationship they once had and how simple their situation was then in comparison to the present.
The knife fight between Skyler and Walt. Given how far the show has been willing to go before, one could spend the whole scene terrified that Skyler, Walter Jr., or even Walt is going to end up with a knife in their gut.
Just the shot of Skyler and Walt Jr. cowering on the ground in front of Walt, one of Jr.'s arms flung protectively in front of his mother, looking up at Walt like he's some sort of monster — which by this point, he is. To be fair, Skyler did attack him first, but Walt went into Hyde pretty quickly.
How about the kidnapping of Holly by Walt? Skyler, screaming and crying, bangs on Walt's truck while Holly stares at her, crying as well, and then Walt drives off backing into Skyler's car and out of the neighborhood, possibly for the rest of his life from Skyler's knowledge.
"Granite State": When Walt hears the Schwartzes badmouthing him on TV. He instantly turns from depressed and suicidal, to ice-cold determined. It's like a non-physical Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde transformation. All with the extended Breaking Bad theme playing. Heisenberg is back!
The worst part was Skyler being confronted by Todd and two Neo-Nazis in balaclavas in Holly's room. Todd threatens her and her children, all while remaining eerily calm and polite.
Walt's homemade chemo treatment. People with a fear of needles should stay far away. It's even worse that his assistant's only training came from YouTube videos.
The final episode, "Felina":
How Walt ensures Walter Jr, will receive his inheritance. He breaks into the Schwartz home, looking at their belongings while Elliot and Gretchen cook and banter unaware. He then has Badger and Skinny Pete use laser pointers on them, making them think that they are in the sights of two snipers, and convinces them that they'll live under constant supervision and fear until Walter Jr. receives Walt's money through them, possibly for the rest of their lives as well.
Walt entering Skyler's apartment. In an unnervingly-calm scene shot in a specific angle, Skyler sits in the kitchen and talks with a panicked Marie over the phone about Walt being back Albuquerque, with Marie worrying that Walt may plan to do something horrible to the either of them, or the police. After reaffirming Marie that she's looking out for herself, she hangs up the phone... and says "Five minutes." The camera then pans slowly forward, revealing that Walt has been standing in the kitchen the whole time, hidden by a banister in the shot. Even though he actually snuck into the house with benevolent intentions, it's still very discomforting how he is simply... there, almost like an abusive ex breaking into someone's apartment.
The nauseating sound of Todd's neck snapping.
From Lydia's perspective: Imagine calling Todd to ask if Walt had been killed, only to hear from Walt himself that not just Todd, but the entire Aryan Brotherhood gang is dead and that cold you thought you had is actually an incurable poison that he slipped into your favorite tea sweetener. Imagine learning that you have have only days to live, knowing that you cannot be cured, from somebody who treats this as simple collateral.
Hell, Walter White himself is Nightmare Fuel incarnate in this episode. He has come back to Albuquerque even more dangerous than ever before, and, in a matter of hours, killed Jack Welker and his gang, killed Lydia, set Jesse free, and guaranteed Elliott and Gretchen that they will donate the rest of his money to his family. All of this, while looking like an absolute wreck who can't do any more damage than he has already done. Holy shit!

Breaking Bad / Tropes A to B
Abandoned Area: The White family residence at the very end.
Aborted Arc:
Marie's kleptomania just falls by the wayside and never gets fully explored or resolved. However, it does come back into play briefly during the final season when she attempts to take Holly away from Skyler after finding out about Walt and Skyler's criminal deeds.
In the episode Peekaboo, after Spooge repeats his claim that the ATM theft was a "victimless crime", the scene cuts away to show the actual crime scene, which includes a dead body, lots of blood, and a baggie of Jesse and Walt's signature blue meth. Nothing ever comes of this and it is not mentioned again.
Absurdly Sharp Blade: The Cousins' axe falls out of his hands and cuts into the asphalt far enough to stay upright. It wasn't even swung downwards — it just fell about 7 feet and landed on the blade.
Abusive Parents:
In Season 2, Jesse encounters a couple of drug addicts who do nothing but rob people and get high living together in a filthy, dilapidated house — along with their This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.horribly neglected young son. He is suitably disgusted.
A flashback shows how Tio Salamanca raised the two terrifying hit men we see in season three. When one of them yells in the midst of a sibling squabble that he wishes his brother were dead, Tio takes him at his word and proceeds to hold his brother's head under ice water until he fights his uncle off to save his brother. The treatment did, however, seem to instill an undying family loyalty in the brothers.
Walter to his surrogate son, Jesse, in later seasons.
Walt to his actual son Walt Jr. at least once, when he basically forces Junior to drink until he pukes.
Actor Allusion:
DJ Qualls, who played Toby Loobenfeld, who played Sheldon’s ‘cousin Leo’, appears as an undercover cop trying to buy meth. In other words, the second time he pretends to be a drug addict for a living.
Mark Margolis played a ruthless cartel enforcer in Scarface (1983). He's also in the This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Production Posse of Darren Aronofsky. Not only that, in Scarface, his character tried to assassinate someone with a bomb. Hector himself ends up suicide-bombing Gus successfully in the Season 4 finale.
What happens to Ted is almost exactly the same as the fate of Christopher Cousins' character in Terriers.
Around the same time Kevin Rankin starred as violent Neo-Nazi Kenny, he also appeared as violent Neo-Nazi Killick in White House Down. These roles served as a nice follow-up to his role as violent Neo-Nazi Devil in Justified.
Actor/Role Confusion: The intense hatred for Skyler ended up This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.spreading to her actress, with many people (particularly on Twitter) openly stating they would attack Anna Gunn if they met her in real life. An article by Gunn revealed she even received death threats by idiotic fans who couldn't separate her from her character.
Adult Fear: Oh, let us count the ways...
Dying of a terminal illness, and being unable to pay for treatment.
Having a loved one die of a drug overdose while being too drugged-out yourself to do anything about it—or notice.
Being caught in a plane crash. If you don't find plane crashes scary, you will after you see the Season 2 finale.
In "Dead Freight": A child being murdered, and the evidence being hidden so thoroughly as to make the crime unsolvable.
In "Ozymandias":
A domestic fight happening while the whole family is present, forcing a child to call the police on his own father, resulting in the father kidnapping his baby daughter and running away.
Being kidnapped and forced into slavery, and being tortured so badly that you lose your will to fight back.
Affably Evil:
Saul Goodman, the cheerfully corrupt lawyer.
Mike Ehrmantraut is gruff but personable and loyal, as well as a loving grandfather, but he'll straight-up murder you if it needs to be done.
Todd has a very mild and friendly personality, but is also a cold-blooded criminal who kills without hesitation or regret. The dichotomy is best seen when he apologizes to his murder victim immediately before shooting her in the head, and brings an enslaved Jesse two flavors of ice cream (since he didn't know which Jesse prefers) as a reward for good work.
Jesse himself, especially in the early seasons before Break the Haughty really set in and, ironically, before he did the worst things. He's actually still a nice, immature guy who seeks approval even as he convinces Walt to kill Krazy-8.
Affectionate Gesture to the Head: Jack gives Todd an affectionate noogie (still holding a gun) during the Tension-Cutting Laughter after he asks Jack not to kill Jesse because he's still trying to impress Lydia with their cooking.
Ain't Too Proud to Beg:
Both Walt and Gale plead for their lives.
In "Ozymandias", Walt begs for Hank's life. Hank refuses to, at least in part because he's resigned to the fact that Jack has already decided to kill him.
And then in the finale, Walt begs Jesse to Mercy Kill him. Jesse refuses.
Inverted in season one, when Walt refuses Elliott and Gretchen's offer to pay for his treatment.
Alas, Poor Villain:
In "Face Off", the extremely moving music as Gus walks to his death reminds you that he was once a similar guy to Walt, and he'll die failing to get his final revenge on the people who killed his "brother".
Similarly, the sheer amount of anger and sadness in Hector's face as he looks at his target, Gus before setting off the bomb that will kill both of them makes you almost feel sorry for him.
Debatable as to how much of a villain he was, but Mike's death. Granted, Mike's a stone cold murderer and by no means a good guy but the writers manage to avoid making this a case of Kick the Son of a Bitch by having Mike become a guy who just wants out of the game... and then Walt goes and kills him over some petty ego bullshit.
All Just a Dream: In the alternate ending from the complete series DVD. Turns out Hal just ate deep-fried twinkies before bed.
The Alleged Car:
Walter's dull green Pontiac Aztek was a deliberate choice on behalf of Vince Gilligan due to the Aztek being considered one of the worst cars ever made (see the main trope article for the reasons why) yet has notoriously protective owners, to make Walt seem more pathetic. In "Fifty-One", Walt sells it to his mechanic for 50 dollars.
In "Salud", on Walter Jr.'s 16th birthday, Skyler is thrilled to surprise him by finally buying him a car she picked out... unfortunately, it's the infamously terrible and stupid-looking Chrysler PT Cruiser. Walt Jr. has a very hard time trying to hide his disappointment. (He had his heart set on a Dodge Challenger.)
All the cars in the series have some significance to their owner as This article points out.
All for Nothing: After two years in the drug business, Walt ends up hiding from the police alone in a cabin in the New Hampshire wilderness. He's been shunned by his family, the neo-Nazis have stolen most of his money and the one barrel of cash he has left he cannot spend or pass on to his children. He's on the verge of turning himself in, until he sees Gretchen and Elliot being interviewed about him on television.
Mike was trying to put together a huge nest egg for his Granddaughter. In the end the DEA is able to seize the money and Walt kills him. Jesse tries to get money to Mike's Granddaughter, but Saul quickly points out that the DEA would just seize that as well. The issue is never brought up again so it's likely she'll never get the money.
Alliterative Name: Both father and son are named Walter White. The name was deliberately chosen for its blandness. Lampshaded by Hank at one point:
Hank: W.W., who do you think that is, huh? Woodrow Wilson? Willy Wonka? ... Walter White?
Alliterative Title: "Breaking Bad".
Always a Bigger Fish: To Walt and Jesse there's the Salamanca cartel, to them there's Gus' empire, to him there's Lydia as executive of Madrigal in the US, to her there's Peter Schuler as head of Madrigal fast food division and it may go even higher.
Ambiguously Brown:
The ethnicity of the character, Victor, Gus's personal assistant and right hand man to Mike is never revealed. He hardly ever speaks, but when does, he doesn't have a Mexican accent nor does he ever speak Spanish. Being that the actor portraying the character, Jeremiah Bitsui is a full-blooded American Indian (1/2 Navajo, 1/2 Omaha), and the city of Albuquerque is home to a big American Indian population, particularly Navajo Indians, it wouldn't be much of a stretch to assume that Victor is possibly Native American (Navajo.)
Gus himself, up until the point when his Chilean background is revealed, which is itself suspect. Gus alternately goes by "Gus" and "Gustavo," and his sometimes-heavy Spanish accent appears and disappears depeneding on the context, as if he is camouflaging his ethnicity. Gus seems to become more and more overtly Spanish as the series progresses.
Ambiguously Gay:
Gus, whose unusually strong attachment to his initial meth-distributing partner (even twenty years after his death) has provoked audience speculation as to his sexuality. This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Word of God even states that this is a legitimate interpretation of their relationship. He references a wife and kids, but they never show up onscreen, and thus may not even exist.
Gale worships Walt and gives him a copy of Leaves of Grass, by the famously Ambiguously Gay Walt Whitman, that he signs "To my other favorite W.W." The rest of his tastes and personality, especially in his home, brush against some gay stereotypes, although there is never any confirmation either way.
Amoral Attorney: Zig Zagged in interesting ways by Saul Goodman, Walt and Jesse's lawyer and financial advisor. The archetypal image of a skeevy lawyer, he has so many criminal clients he can't even keep track of them. However, his amorality is exclusively limited to the kinds of clients he takes on and his willingness to adhere to the law. To his clients he is outstandingly loyal, refusing to take bribes or double cross them and respecting their confidentiality even when physically threatened.
Jesse: Going gets tough, you don't want a criminal lawyer. You want a criminal lawyer, know what I mean?
Ambulance Chaser: Saul Goodman will take advantage of any client that is desperate.
Analogy Backfire:
Hank talks about how he wanted to bring Heisenberg in himself, like Popeye Doyle. Walt points out that in The French Connection, Doyle never successfully arrested anyone.
Hank makes references to Rocky that seem to ignore the fact that Rocky actually lost in the first film.
Mike explains his Start of Darkness to try to talk Walt out of a half measure attempt to save Jesse. Walt references it again after killing the two men Jesse wanted dead, and Mike is less than pleased.
And Some Other Stuff: Mostly done quite subtly, we're never shown entire recipes for anything particularly dangerous. Any time Walt and Jesse are shown cooking meth, there's a montage of them manipulating lab equipment, adding ingredients, pouring out results and occasional CGI shots of reactions at the molecular level, but nothing practical to follow. This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.According to the producers, the recipes for making meth, methods for disposing of bodies and such are deliberately either incomplete or incorrect, because the writers didn't want to educate viewers who might be... let's say, criminally motivated.
Animal Motifs: Tortuga is commonly associated with tortoises. His name is Spanish for tortoise and the cousins kill him by severing his head and placing it on a tortoise.
Anti-Hero: Walter and Jesse are deeply involved in the methamphetamine industry, and are often forced to commit gruesome acts to survive. At the same time, Walt is motivated to provide for his family should his cancer claim him, and Jesse is really just in the business because it's what he does best. By the time season five starts, Walter is motivated only by greed and power, while Jesse is more conflicted than ever. The intention of the showrunners is for the character to "start as Mr. Chips and end up as Scarface."
Anyone Can Die: Any character that dies on the show stays dead. Throughout the entire show, the list includes: Emilio, Krazy-8, Tuco, Tortuga, Combo, Jane, the Cousins, Gale Boetticher, Victor, the Cartel bosses, Héctor Salamanca, Tyrus, Gus, Drew Sharp, Mike, Declan and his crew, Gomez, Hank, Andrea, the Nazis, Todd, Jack, and WALT. Lydia ends the series with, at most, a few days to live. Needless to say if you took on this show you should have kept your resume current.
Arc Words: "Apply yourself."
This was written by Walt on Jesse's chemistry test when he gave it a bad grade.
Jesse would later say this to his friends after inviting Skinny Pete, Combo, and Badger to his new home.
Walt says this to a student after rejecting their pleas to let their failed test "slide".
Walt said this to Jesse's successor Todd as they prepared to make their first batch of methamphetamine.
Arms Dealer: Two Gangland Gun Runners have been seen so far:
A genial yokel with a van full of serious hardware who sells a couple of Bulletproof Vests, handguns and some hollow-point bullets to the Salamanca Twins. They test his own vest out before paying up, but luckily for him he sells good merchandise.
An even more genial vendor (Mr. Ellsworth from Deadwood, no less) who meets Walt in a motel room and gives him a brief lesson in Gun Safety and proper use. He's later seen in a flash-forward selling a now on-the-run Walt a stolen car with an M60 in the trunk.
Armor-Piercing Question:
A rhetorical question backfires badly on Jane's dad, Donald when it does this to Walt in 'Phoenix'. He tells Walt, 'You can't give up on [family]. What else is there?' This results in Walt going to see Jesse one more time to try and get through to him. Where he sees Jane choking on her own vomit, chooses to let her die, and ruins Donald's life in the process.
In "Ozymandias", Skyler realises that something is terribly wrong when Walt grows increasingly irate when she asks him, "Where is Hank?"
In "Granite State", Walt realizes it really was All for Nothing when Walt Jnr. screams at him "Why are you still alive?" although it's a rhetorical question as he follows it up with "Just die already."
Artistic License – Chemistry:
In Real Life, it's unlikely that a meth product as pure as the stuff that Walt manufactures would appear blue, because methamphetamine itself is colorless. The color would inherently be from an impurity (presumably the <1% that isn't meth). It is handwaved in-story as a byproduct of Walt's particular chemical synthesis, but it's really just a convenient way for the writers to make Walt's meth stand out. It also gives Hank a convenient way to track "Heisenberg", since he can identify his meth by its unique color.
An article on Slate points out that a chemist of Walt's calibre could synthesize methylamine pretty easily, but their attempts to source a rare raw material are a convenient source of drama.
Phenylacetic acid is a red flag to the DEA, but they can't use that as Unobtainium because the guy in charge of the Mexican lab already spilled the beans that any college sophomore could make it. Methylamine is, if anything, easier to make from stuff that the DEA isn't terribly interested in than phenylacetic acid is.
Several uses of chemistry in the series were investigated in Mythbusters in a special episode about Breaking Bad. The scenes where the hydrofluoric acid ate through the tub in "Cat's in the Bag" and where mercury fulminate was used to blow up a room in "Crazy Handful of Nothin'" each wound up being busted. In response, Vince Gilligan cited Artistic License as justification. He also suggested a potential Hand Wave when the MythBusters couldn't set off the Hg fulminate with an impact: Walt used more volatile silver fulminate as a primary explosive.
It's extremely unlikely that a high school chemistry lab would have hydrofluoric acid sitting around to begin with. HF is highly dangerous (in deceptive, not-necessarily-immediately-apparent ways) and not actually all that useful in the sorts of experiments that are commonly done in high school or even in college (at the masters/doctoral level, maybe).
Artistic License – Law:
Saul Goodman asks Walt and Jesse to give him a dollar each, claiming that it's a retainer and he's therefore forbidden from revealing anything they discuss because of attorney-client privilege. Anyone who knows how attorney-client privilege works knows it doesn't apply here since Saul is himself part of an ongoing criminal conspiracy. However, he might have been twisting the truth so they would stop threatening him and start trusting him.
Occasionally, methamphetamine is misclassified as a Schedule I substance on the show — it's actually Schedule IIB. This is easiest seen screen captures of the newspaper clippings on Walter's wall while he's hiding away in New Hampshire.
The divorce attorney Skyler speaks to claims that attorney-client privilege allows her to not disclose if Skyler tells of any criminal activity. In fact, this is precisely where the privilege does not apply. Any discussion about an ongoing or planned crime is not privileged.
Artistic License – Medicine:
When Walt starts taking chemotherapy, he only loses the hair on his scalp, not his facial hair.
Ricin poisoning doesn't cause flu-like symptoms when it's ingested — it causes severe digestive distress, including but not limited to vomiting and defecating blood.
Marie's advice to during one of Walt's hospital trips to get an X-ray:
She encourages him to try to talk to the radiologic tech taking the X-ray and try to get the guy to give Walt an interpretation of the X-ray. Technicians/technologists are trained to never make a diagnosis or give medical advice based on their radiographs, as they are not qualified to do so and could contradict what the actual doctor says. The tech does rebuff Walt's questions, so Marie might simply be incorrect in-universe.
She claims that doctors often consult with techs as part of making a diagnosis. This isn't true. Radiologic doctors only observe the images themselves and compare them to patients' medical data. The only need they might ever have to question a tech is when an image has an anomaly and they ask about the position the patient was placed in that might explain the anomaly.
The scene where Peter Schuler commits suicide with a defibrillator would be impossible in Real Life, because the device that he uses is an AED (Automatic External Defibrillator). As the name implies, an AED is automatic, and it's designed so that it only works if it detects an arrhythmia that could potentially be fixed with a shock to the heart. If it were possible to intentionally induce cardiac arrest with an AED, that would defeat the point of the device—because it's supposed to allow laypeople to induce defibrillation without worrying about whether it's safe or medically necessary.
In one Season 2 episode, when Walt sneaks out of the hospital at night and later sneaks back in, he reinserts puts his PVC (peripheral vein catheter) to hide the fact that he's been missing. A PVC is actually designed so that it can't be reinserted after being removed from the body; the needle is removed after the initial insertion, and the rest of the catheter is soft plastic that can't penetrate the skin. Otherwise, PVCs would be dangerous to use, not to mention painful for the patient.
Artistic License – Physics: During the heist, Walter mentions that the methylamene has 9/10th the density of water, meaning that water is more dense and therefore would sink to the bottom. This happens rather quickly, and the water being added to displace the stolen methylamene would likely drop to the bottom within maybe 10-15 seconds. Since water is being added more or less directly above where the methylamene is being siphoned, they would be significantly diluting their own haul.
Ascended Extra:
Mike, who starts out as a This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.One-Scene Wonder in the season two finale, becomes a regular in season three and is one of the show's most central characters by season five.
Todd worked his way up this ladder in Season five, starting out as just an underling in Vamonos Pest. Two episodes later, he helps the guys in their train heist, and two episodes after that, he becomes Walt's new lab assistant. In the second part of the season, he becomes Lydia's new primary cook when his uncle's crew massacres Declan's.
Hector Salamanca starts off as a seemingly minor character in two episodes towards the beginning of season two, but returns in season three and four in arcs that gradually reveal him to be not only an important player in the Mexican cartel, but in the Backstory of one of the main characters.
Asshole Victim: Oh so many. Tuco, Todd, Lydia, the Cartel Dons, Uncle Jack, Krazy-8, Spooge, and perhaps even Walt, to name a few.
A-Team Firing: In season five, the episode "To'hajiilee" ends with a shootout where none of the people involved seem to hit anything. This is cleared up in the next episode.
Audit Threat: The risk of the IRS discovering the shady bookkeeping practices of Beneke Fabricators is attention that Skyler is determined to avoid in season 3.
Ax-Crazy:
Tuco Salamanca is a drug dealer with a methamphetamine addiction who is always just a few moments from flying off the handle. He will take any and every excuse he can get to beat someone up, especially when he's high on meth. As Walt tells him in season 2:
Walt: We tried to poison you because you are an insane, degenerate piece of filth and you deserve to die.
The Salamanca Cousins. One of them carries around a chromed fire-axe with which they kill several people. When they ambush Hank, Marco refuses to shoot Hank in the face when he had the chance, choosing instead to go back to the car to get the axe. That decision works out about as well as it usually does, as Hank manages to get the drop with Leonel's gun before Marco gets a chance to axe him.
Baby's First Words: Played for Drama with Holly: her first words were calling for her mother and what makes it sad is that she starts talking after being kidnapped by her father Walt.
Back for the Finale: Gretchen, Elliot, Badger, and Skinny Pete all pop up in the finale after not being seen for a long time.
Badass Boast:
Walt: Let me clue you in. I am not in danger, Skyler. I am the danger. A guy opens his door and gets shot, you think that of me? No! I am the one who knocks!
Something of a subversion in that his initial aim is to reassure Skyler, but just ends up panicking her all the more as she realizes for the first time that her husband may very well be a murderer.
Mike, after taking out some cartel goons sent to pressure one of Gus's suppliers, talks with Gus:
Gus: [The Cartel is] Probing for weakness.
Mike: Well, they didn't find any.
Gus, after poisoning the cartel, makes one to the remaining people in the Don's mansion, who promptly flee.
In "Crawl Space", Gus delivers one to Héctor Salamanca at the retirement home, saying that he killed off all members of the cartel and Jesse killed his grandson, making him the last of the Salamanca line.
Walt gets a one line Badass Boast in the season 4 finale after pulling off a double Batman Gambit and defeating Gus: "I won".
Badass Family: The Salamanca family, a Mexican crime family willing to defend their position in the cartel with violence.
Bad Boss:
Tuco. Shortly after we're introduced to him, we get to see him beat one of his henchmen to death for reminding Walt that he works for Tuco.
Gus is a cold-blooded, Faux Affably Evil Bad Boss. Kind of. He slits a mook's throat just to make a point (and incidentally to punish him for carelessness in being seen at the scene of a crime). On the other hand, he seems to be grooming Jesse for a more responsible position and the show implies that Jesse makes the wrong choice when he picks Walt over Gus. Giancarlo Esposito has an interesting take on this here: Gus treated Victor as a member of his "family", but had to kill him because he jeopardized it.
Bait-and-Switch: In "Confessions", Walt is seen sitting down with a video camera in what he states was his confession before the show cut to a commercial. Hank and Marie receive the confession after meeting with Walt and, to their surprise, it's not a confession of Walt fessing up to the sins he committed while in the drug trade, but a carefully constructed lie meant to frame Hank.
Bald of Evil: Quite a few characters. Mike and Tio Salamanca are naturally bald. Walt shaves his head early in the show, but that's due to the chemo drugs he is taking. The Salamanca brothers also sport shaved heads. Jesse also crops his hair down after a traumatic event in an apparent effort to toughen himself up. The trope is even exploited in the Season 5 episode "Rabid Dog," in which a paranoid Jesse is spooked by the sight of a tough-looking bald man near where he is supposed to meet Heisenberg. Jesse, believing that the other man is a hitman, flees the scene in fear; right afterward, it's shown that the bald man is just an ordinary man waiting to meet up with his wife and child.
Ballistic Discount: Subverted. The Salamanca brothers meet with a gun dealer and test out the Bulletproof Vests he's selling by shooting the one the dealer is already wearing. After checking to see that the bullet in fact did not penetrate through the vest, they actually pay the dealer and leave him groaning on the floor.
Battle Trophy: Hank receives Tuco's grill as a gift.
Batman Gambit:
Two of epic proportions in the last two episodes of season 4 by Walt. First, he gives Brock a poison with ricin-like symptoms and steals Jesse's ricin cigarette; Jesse storms his house wanting to kill him, since only the two of them knew about the ricin, but Walt convinces him at gunpoint that he would have nothing to gain and that it's a ploy by Gus to gain Jesse's compliance in killing Walt. When his initial attempt to kill Gus fails, he acquires Hector Salamanca as an ally, convinces him to talk to the DEA so Gus will think he's snitching, then booby-traps his wheelchair. This plan hinges on the hopes that a) Héctor hates Gus more than he hates Walt, b) Gus will insist on killing Héctor in person and c) Héctor is willing to kill himself to take Gus down with him. Amazingly, it all works.
In Season 5, Jesse and Hank manage to scare Walt into driving to exactly where his money is hidden with a falsified picture, and Jesse egging Walt on so he won't stop and try to reason out whether or not Jesse actually has the money. It works so well that Walt ends up driving so recklessly he probably broke every New Mexico motor vehicle law on the books. All it took was knowing what Walter really cared about, even more than his family.
The series finale is one long Batman Gambit as Walt executes several complicated plans in order to get revenge on Elliot and Gretchen, Lydia, and the Nazis.
Bavarian Fire Drill: In "Cornered", Jesse wants to entice some meth heads, who have stolen some Blue Sky, out of their home. How does he do this? He grabs a shovel and starts digging outside. One of the meth heads comes outside and asks what he's doing. Jesse tells him he's digging and asks him to take over, leaving the house open and unguarded.
Beard of Evil: Walter, Declan, and Gaff are all antagonistic characters with beards. Walter's beard is particularly distinctive, as it grows between seasons.
Because I'm Good at It:
What ultimately keeps Walt cooking, his pride and ego from realizing that he has a unique skill that has created an empire that would rival that of Steve Jobs both in its value and impact on the meth industry. He's not a failure anymore and has become "the one who knocks." In the series finale, Walt admits this, saying "I was good at it."
In Season 4, Jesse says he wants to continue working with Mike and Gus because he feels useful for once. Mr. White was a constant reminder of Jesse's failures. Positive reinforcement from Gus goes a long way toward winning over Jesse.
Becoming the Mask:
Jesse has his two drug-dealing cronies, Skinny Pete & Badger, pose as recovering addicts and join a 12-step program to sell meth to the other members. They can't bring themselves to do it and end up going sober for a time.
Season one: weak Walter White pretends to be the ruthless Heisenberg. Season four: ruthless Heisenberg pretends to be the weak Walter White. In season five, he doesn't even bother pretending anymore, and willfully scares the shit out of everyone around him.
Being Evil Sucks: Manufacturing crystal meth is highly lucrative, but it's also a brutal business full of violent and unstable sociopaths. Moreover, they also have to contend with ongoing DEA investigations and the difficulties of laundering their drug money without attracting the attention of law enforcement. Walt's activities lead to Hank's death, destroy his relationship with his family and end up costing them everything. Jesse loses everyone dear to him and by the end is so broken he cannot even enjoy the money he made from it. Almost every major character involved in the illegal meth trade is dead by the end of the series.
Being Good Sucks: Lampshaded at least once in season 2. Saul tells Jesse and Walt that Badger is going to sell them out to the feds after he gets busted, and recommends they just have him shanked in jail. His alternate scheme to get Badger off by giving Jimmy In'n'Out to the cops as a Heisenberg stand-in will cost $80,000. When they choose the latter option, Saul says, "Conscience gets expensive, doesn't it?"
Beneath the Mask:
As the series progresses, we see flashes of just how much pent-up anger, bitterness, malice, and wounded pride had always lain beneath Walt's harmless veneer. Viewers are invited to wonder: what sort of man had Walter quietly, secretly become even before his 50th birthday? How much of his gradual "transformation" into Heisenberg amounts to the surfacing of personality traits that were always there? How many of us remain good people on the surface, but end up becoming ripe for the sort of trigger events that launched Walt's career?
Hank is introduced as a wisecracking, blustering oaf. However, as the stress and danger of his job increases we see that he is a Sad Clown, riddled with self-doubt, but also has more grit, integrity, bravery and intelligence than he seems to give himself credit for.
Gus Fring. A mild mannered, charming restaurateur who graciously supports the DEA and the community, who uses his restaurants as a front for his crystal meth trafficking ring, and ruthlessly murders enemies and subordinates alike to protect his interests.
Berserk Button:
Walt is incredibly defensive of his son in the first season. Jesse, on the other hand, gets protective of anyone's children, like Spooge's son, or Brock, or Tomas Cantillo, or Drew Sharp.
Eventually, Walt's biggest Berserk Button has nothing to do with his family, but with his Pride. Attacking his massive ego becomes the absolute most dangerous thing you can do, as Mike discovered.
Do NOT call "Spooge's Lady" a skank if you value your life.
Tuco Salamanca has several; his employees speaking out of term, demanding payments upfront, insulting his family, etc. Almost anything can set him off, especially when he's under the influence of Walt's meth.
Best Served Cold: Gus once saw his friend and partner murdered in front of him by the cartel. He then proceeds to bide his time and establish trust for twenty years. Then, when Tio, the man who pulled the trigger, is finally in his power, he still doesn't kill him, but visits him again and again, each time telling him that another one of his relatives has been killed, until he's the last member of his family alive.
BFG:
In season 5, Walt gets his hands on an M60 machine gun, a weapon so huge it was nicknamed "The Pig" during the Vietnam War.
One of Jack's gunmen uses an AA12 automatic shotgun.
Big Bad:
Season 1: Tuco is set up to be this at the end of Season 1, but dies within the first few episodes of Season 2.
Season 3: The Cousins initially, but they become a Disc-One Final Boss. Gus Fring and his empire take up the slack for the rest of season 3.
Season 4: Gus Fring.
Season 5, first half: Walter himself is the Big Bad by way of Villain Protagonist. His Heisenberg side creates much of the conflict.
Season 5, second half: Hank until "Ozymandias", 'Uncle' Jack Welker, with Todd Alquist as The Dragon.
Big "NO!": Jesse before Todd shoots the kid at the end of "Dead Freight".
Also, Jesse after Todd shoots Andrea.
Big, Screwed-Up Family: Where to begin? The drug-cooking school teacher, his attempted Stepford Smiler wife, the gung-ho DEA agent brother-in-law, the kooky kleptomaniac sister... No wonder "Flynn" wants to change his name.
Big "SHUT UP!": A truly epic series of them from Skyler to Marie that verges on a mental breakdown.
Birth/Death Juxtaposition: "Phoenix" is the episode in which Walt's daughter Holly is born and Jane dies.
Similarly, the previous episode "Mandala" (a Sanskrit term referring to the circle of life and death), opens with Combo being killed, and ends with Skyler going into labor.
Bilingual Bonus:
Hank's stint with the DEA in Texas demonstrates his main problem there (not speaking Spanish) by neither translating nor subtitling much of the Spanish lines other characters around him are saying.
Season 5 contains a whole lot of German, some of it untranslated. Both the grammar and the contents are actually surprisingly correct, but the stilted delivery and overly formal vocabulary suggest the actors either aren't native speakers or made a point of using as little slang as humanly possible.
The Milanese song Gale is singing along to in the final episode of Season 3 is called "Crapa Pelada", which translates as "Bald Head", and the lyrics are based on an old folk rhyme about a greedy cook, the lyrics loosely translate as "Bald Head who makes dumplings, but he does not give them to his brothers, his brothers make an omelette, but they do not give it to Bald Head", foreshadowing the cartel/Gus situation much later in the series.
Tio Salamanca tries to warn his nephew about the poisoned food by ringing his bell three times quickly, three times slowly and three times quickly again. This is Morse Code for "SOS."
The episode "Caballo Sin Nombre" means "Nameless Horse" in Spanish or, less literally "A Horse With No Name"; like the song by America Walter White was listening/singing along to in the episode.
Binge Montage: A flashback showing how Jesse lost the money he was meant to buy the RV with.
Bittersweet Ending:
The finale of Season 4, Walt has killed Gus, protected his family, and come out on top through a superb double Batman Gambit, but to do so he had to make more compromises and put more innocents in danger than ever before, including setting off a bomb in a nursing home and even poisoning a small child.
The Grand Finale as well. Walt is dead, his family has completely disowned him, and the world knows that he's Heisenberg... But he died on his own terms, effectively eradicated Blue Sky, he's managed to rescue Jesse from the Aryans, Jesse passes up a chance to kill him, and he manages to get his money, over 9 million, to his children via Gretchen and Elliot. He gives Skyler the coordinates to Hank and Steve's bodies ensuring that they'll have a proper burial, and Skyler may be able to get the feds off her back in exchange for the information. Jesse is free from slavery and all ties to the meth business, and might actually make the most out of his life having had aspirations of being a carpenter during his enslavement. And Todd, Jack, Lydia and the Aryans have all gotten their just comeuppance.
Black and Grey Morality:
"Heisenberg" vs the Cartel. Season 4 gives us Walt vs Gus. Though this became Evil vs. Evil by the end.
From Season 5B, Hank versus Heisenberg quickly became this, as Hank's pursuit of Heisenberg proves to be not without its own compromises.
Uncle Jack's crew of Neo-Nazis versus Heisenberg.
Black Comedy: Comedy so black, no light can escape it.
The first season was especially reliant on it, although the comedy became more subdued in later seasons as the series took a grimmer turn.
Black Dude Dies First: Look at the list of names under Anyone Can Die — the deaths in the series overwhelmingly happen to Hispanic men and women. Among the main characters, Gus is the first to die. All of the main characters to survive the series are white.
The Blade Always Lands Pointy End In: Marco Salamanca's axe when Hank shoots him before he can deliver a Coup de Grâce.
Bleed 'em and Weep:
Walt killing Krazy-8.
Jesse killing Gale. Well, it's more of a "weep and bleed 'em" scenario.
Blue-and-Orange Morality: The neo-Nazis. They are a particularly despicable lot who have no qualms about murdering children and are even crueler than Gus, but they find the state of the U.S. utterly dreadful:
Kenny: Nanny state. I see a kid with a bicycle helmet on, I want to smack the shit out of him — like for his own good.
Blofeld Ploy: In the season 4 premiere "Box Cutter", Gus seems about to discipline Walt, but instead kills an underling and departs without a word. His motivation is left ambiguous. However, the underling, Victor, was seen at the scene of a crime and could have led authorities back to Gus. Walt, on the other hand, suspects that Gus killed Victor for cooking a batch of meth, taking on more authority than Gus had given him.
Although that scene could be interpreted this way, Gus' motivations aren't exactly cloudy: Victor revealed that he was ready to replace Walt if need be, meaning that Gale's death at the end of the previous season was not enough to bring Walt the security he wanted. Gus then gives walt the Radish Cure by killing Victor, showing Walt how concequential gaining that security is.
Blood from the Mouth: Subverted. Walt starts coughing up blood in "4 Days Out", but the end of the episode confirms that he's in remission.
Bloody Hilarious:
In the first season, Jesse tries to dispose of a body using hydrofluoric acid. In a bathtub. It doesn't work out well for the body, the bathtub, or the floor underneath. By the time the floor's weakened enough for the remains of the body to fall through, it's no longer recognizable as human. As long as you don't vomit, you'll bust a gut laughing.
Also, Spooge's head getting crushed by the ATM in "Peekaboo."
Bluffing the Authorities: Gus Fring is questioned by the police about the murder of his one-time criminal underling Gale Boetticher after trace evidence showed that Gus had been at Gale's house not long before his death. Gus, being The Chessmaster and a Villain with Good Publicity, spins the story and claims that after years of not talking, Gale had contacted Gus recently, invited him over, and tried to get him to invest in something that seemed shady. Gus refused, and then read about the murder several days later. Because Gus has such good publicity and is so methodical about covering his tracks, everyone except Hank buys it.
Boarding School: Skyler brings up sending Walter, Jr. to one, if only as a way of getting him away from Walt.
Book Dumb: Jesse, who's occasionally shown to be pretty smart (if irresponsible and naive) but under-educated. Contrasts with Walt's Science Hero, and often fills the role of The Watson regarding Walt's chemical wizardry.
Book-Ends:
In series finale "Felina," Walt arrives at the Neo-Nazi compound wearing the same outfit he wore in the first episode, "Pilot": pastel jacket, green button-up shirt, white undershirt and beige slacks.
For most of the series, Walt is in remission and shaves his head. However, in the final season, his cancer comes back and he lets his hair grow back out, mirroring his state in the first season, albeit a lot more disheveled.
Both Hank’s introduction scene and death scene feature him making backhanded compliments about Walt’s intelligence and attending slight lack of social craft. Both are clearly made out of love but in very different situations.
Both the first and final episodes take place on Walt's birthday.
With the exception of Season 5, the first and final episodes of each season has at least one person dying.
Season 1: Emilio Koyama is killed by phosphine gas in "Pilot", No-Doze is beaten to death by Tuco in "A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal".
Season 2: Gonzo is killed off-camera in "Seven-Thirty-Seven", accidentally crushing his arm in a pile of cars at the junkyard trying to recover No-Doze's body and bleeding out. 167 people are killed in the Wayfarer 515 crash in "ABQ".
Season 3: 10 Mexican migrants and their smuggler are killed by the Cousins in "No Más". 4 cartel thugs are killed by Mike in "Full Measure", Gale is shot by Jesse in the same episode.
Season 4: Victor is killed by Gus in "Box Cutter", slitting his throat with the titular tool. In "Face Off", Hector Salamanca kills Gus, Tyrus, and himself in a murder-suicide after his wheelchair was rigged with a bomb by Walt. Walt also shoots two of Gus's guards at the Superlab.
Season 5: This is the only season with no deaths in the first episode. "Felina" however has Jack and his Neo-Nazi gang gunned down by Walt, Todd is strangled to death by Jesse, Lydia is poisoned by ricin planted by Walt, and finally; Walt himself dies of a gunshot wound in Jack's lab just moments before police arrive.
Boom, Headshot!:
Hank kills one of the Salamanca twins with a hollow-point bullet to the head.
Gus's companion in founding Los Pollos Hermanos, Max, gets offed in this fashion by Tio right before his eyes.
What Uncle Jack gives to Declan and Hank.
Todd kills Andrea in this fashion to penalize Jesse for trying to escape Jack's compound.
Walt delivers the final blow to Uncle Jack this way.
Boredom Montage: Used in the episode "Shotgun" when Jesse begins working for Mike. In "I See You," he kills time in the lab waiting for Walt to arrive.
Bottle Episode: "And the Bag's in the River" and especially "Fly", which features only Jesse and Walter, and only one location (the basement lab), and only one story — Walter and Jesse trying to kill a fly. For the whole episode.
"Four Days Out" was supposed to be this with the majority of time spent in the RV with Jeese and Walter. However, more scenes required shooting out in the desert or in completely different locations to make the episode work, so it ended up being one of the more expensive episodes of the series.
Bottomless Magazines: Tuco and Hank zig-zag this trope in their shoot out. Both of them reload after exchanging shots, but both of them fired more shots than their weapons should've been able to before so.
Again in Hank's shootout with the Twins, Marco fires 11 bullets from what appears to be a .45 1911 before the slide locks open. Leonel fires 9 times at Hank from his own 1911, Hank then picks up Leonel's gun and fires 5 more times at Marco.
Brandishment Bluff: Walt does this in the finale to Gretchen and Elliot. To ensure they pay the money to his family he tells them he hired a couple of hitmen to watch them while having two laser sights pointed at them. Turns out it was just Skinny Pete and Badger with a couple of laser pointers.
Breakout Character:
Saul Goodman. He proved to be so popular that he received a spinoff called Better Call Saul which detailed how he went from being Jimmy McGill to Saul Goodman. And, unlike most spinoff shows, it's actually good.
By extension, Mike, as he features in Better Call Saul as the deuteragonist, and Gus, who gets a subplot revolving around him in Season 3 of the aforementioned show.
Break the Cutie:
Jesse, over the course of the show.
Skyler in the third season. It got much worse throughout Season 5.
Really, just about every central character who isn't dead by the end of the series qualifies for this, since if they haven't died, then they've definitely gone through hell and back dozens of times. And then there the people who've died, such as Hank, Mike, and countless others. And then there are minor characters or one-off characters, such as Drew Sharp's parents and Donald Margolis (if his suicide attempt wasn't successful).
Break His Heart to Save Him: Walt's call to Skyler in "Ozymandias" has shades of this. On the surface, he appears to be ruthlessly and cruelly raging at her, but a closer reading shows that he's taking the blame for all the crimes, for the benefit of the police listening in. It also has the effect of emotionally severing himself from Skyler, Walter Jr., and Marie, allowing them all to see him as the villain and themselves as fellow victims, so they can salvage their relationships when he's gone.
Break the Haughty:
Hank and Jesse both experience extreme pressure that cracks their arrogant facades.
Walt goes through this in "Ozymandias": Hank's death at the hands of Jack's crew, Jack's crew taking his money, his family abandoning him, and even his baby daughter wanting her mother over him, finally makes him realize what he's become.
Walt's crushing continues in the following episode "Granite State": Saul's new-identity man sets him up in a remote shack where the cancer eats at his strength. He keeps starting the eight-mile walk to the nearest town, but even the Heisenberg hat can't give him the power to do it. He can't get any of the money — all that remains of the legacy that justifies any of this business — to his family without suspicion, and when he tries to send them some through a friend of Walt Jr., his son angrily rejects him.
Breakout Character: Jesse Pinkman (people keep asking Aaron Paul to call them a bitch) and Saul Goodman (focus of Spin-Off show Better Call Saul).
Bribe Backfire: Walt and Jesse's first meeting with Saul.
Briefcase Full of Money: Lots of characters, though usually not in an actual briefcase; it's more likely to be a backpack or duffel bag, and in one scene there's a shipping pallet full of money. In the end, the totality of Walt's fortune is contained in seven plastic 55-gallon barrels full of money.
Bring My Brown Pants: One of Mike's first victims (that we know of) soiled himself after the former roughed him up and threatened to kill him should he hurt his wife again.
Brown Face: Mark Margolis is of Eastern European descent and plays Mexican Hector Salamanca. Giancarlo Esposito is half Italian half African-American and plays Chilean Gustavo Fring. This one is a bit more justified though in that Gustavo's real identity is a bit of a mystery.
Brutal Brawl: In the Season 3 episode "Bug," tensions boil over between Walt and Jesse and they engage in a furious fistfight, wrecking Jesse's living room. Surprisingly Walt, a 50-year-old cancer patient, gives as good as he gets, throwing Jesse around the room and giving him a vicious kick to the face. In the next episode, Jesse sports visible facial bruises and Walt is bedridden from being beaten.
Buffy Speak: A hysterical Tuco orders Walt to give CPR to the dying No-Doze. Not remembering what it's called, he just makes the chest-pressing motion with his hands and shouts at Walt to "do that... that thing!"
Bulletproof Vest:
The Cousins purchase a pair from an illegal arms dealer. Played realistically: one of them shoots the dealer in the chest to test the vests — he survives, but one of his ribs is broken and he's left moaning in pain as the Cousins walk away.
Saul wears one under his suit after Huell suddenly goes AWOL in "To'hajiilee."
Jack's crew wear them when tooled in "To'hajiilee."
Bunny-Ears Lawyer: Hank, of all people. He's a blowhard, maybe even to Jerkass with a Heart of Gold levels, but notice throughout the show that in general, he's a very good detective.
Burner Phones: Several phones are snapped in half and otherwise disposed of to cover up criminal activity over the course of the series. Saul has a whole drawer full of different cell phones. In Season 2, Walter manages to deflect Skyler's suspicions about him having a second cell phone. That is, until Walter is being sedated for cancer surgery in the finale, Skyler asks him about his cell phone, and Walter says, "Which one?" This leads to Skyler finding the burner phone and unspooling Walter's entire web of lies.
...But He Sounds Handsome: Walt's vanity is so bad that he won't let Hank believe that Heisenberg was someone as prosaic as Gale, asserting that Heisenberg's "genius might still be out there."
Butt-Monkey: Jesse's first scene is him falling out a window with no pants on. His humiliation grows with his success. One consistent element through the first few seasons of the show was Jesse taking a severe beating when someone was pissed at Walt. It almost grew to Running Gag status.
Walt has been the Butt-Monkey his whole life, but the events of the show make him more assertive and aggressive. Which is not really a good thing, it turns out.
Button Mashing: Jesse light-heartedly accuses Brock of this as they play a Sonic game with the wonderful line, "You're just pressing buttons and it makes you do magical stuff."

Breaking Bad / Tropes C to D
Call-Back:
In episode 2, Jesse fails to appreciate how important a plastic bin is when dissolving a body in hydrofluoric acid. Three seasons later, he finally gets to do it properly, saying "trust us" when Mike questions if it'll work.
When Walt serves Krazy 8 a sandwich, Krazy 8 pulls off the crust, causing Walter to cut the crusts off every other sandwich he gives him. Ever since killing Krazy 8, when Walt makes a sandwich, he cuts off the crust.
A season after they needed it, Jesse tells Badger that the RV should have "one of those buzzers that tells you when you leave the key in the ignition."
In the Season 5 premiere, Walt makes the number '52' with his bacon to mark his 52nd birthday. Just like Skyler did for him making a '50' on his 50th birthday in the first ever episode, albeit with veggie bacon.
The bacon tradition appears again three episodes later in "Fifty-One" with the titular number. This also stands to remind us that at least one more year passes over the course of the last 12 episodes of the series.
The unsliced pizza sits atop the White garage for quite a long time.
Early in the series a student tries to talk Walt into giving him a passing grade because he got a 58% and says he was "close." Walt refuses. A few episodes later Walt is grading papers and the student gets a 40%. Walter writes "Not even close" on it. In Season 3 when the school is discussing the air crash we see the student again trying to weasel his way into a passing grade by claiming that if a college student's roommate dies he gets passing grades and think that the school here should do the same.
In Season 5, "Confessions", Walt records a video of himself opening with "My name is Walter Hartwell White. I live at 308 Negra Arroyo Lane, Albuquerque, New Mexico. 87104", just as he did in the Cold Open to the pilot episode. However, in the first tape, he explicitly says that the tape is not to be considered a confession of anything; in the second one, he proceeds "this is my confession", before proceeding to pin everything on Hank.
In "Rabid Dog", Skyler says "I knew this would happen! I told you someday someone would show up at our door", a callback to the "I am the one who knocks" speech. Meanwhile, Saul describing Jesse as a rabid dog that needs to be put down echoes Jesse in rehab, confessing to putting down a dog when he's really talking about killing Gale.
Also in "Rabid Dog", the attempted setup at the end mirrors the setup from "Better Call Saul" - Jesse, like Badger, is supposed to meet Heisenberg on a bench in a public setting, but is misdirected by a simple coincidence involving another bald man nearby.
The end of "To'hajiilee", when a huge shootout occurs, mirrors a larger-scale version of Hank's shootout with Tuco from "Grilled", the event that first sparked his PTSD and set him on the downward spiral he's been in the entire series.
"To'hajiilee" is also the second time in the series Walt stood in that desert with a handgun awaiting a standoff, and the second time he couldn't bring himself to do it.
Not long into "Ozymandias", when Walt is rolling his last cash barrel away in the middle of the desert, the pair of pants that blew away in the first episode are visible if you keep an eye on the foreground.
A more obvious "Ozymandias" example is the pilot flashback during the intro, returning to show how far Walt has come from the pilot to the ante-penultimate episode.
"Granite State": Walt tries to threaten Saul into working for him, like he did in "Live Free or Die", but he's interrupted by a coughing fit. Skyler being interrogated by the cops strongly parallels the scene where Walt finds out about the cancer◊ and Walt Jr tells his father to "fucking die already" - but for different, much darker reasons.
In the series finale, Jesse daydreams about building a box, referencing his monologue in "Kafkaesque" where he tells the support worker about the one time he put everything he had into a school project.
Also in the finale, the shot of Jesse crying while pointing a gun at Walt is almost identical to the shot from the season 3 finale of him about to kill Gale.
The titles of the episodes "Live Free or Die" and "Granite State" are meant to parallel each other, as they're named after the State Motto and State Nickname of New Hampshire, respectively. In the former, we get our first Flash Forward to Walt on the run from the police after moving to New Hampshire. In the latter, we finally get to see how he got there.
Calling the Old Man Out:
When trying to convince Walter to go into therapy, Walter Jr. delivers one so poignant, it's almost a This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Tear Jerker.
And in Season 5B, he delivers a second one, considerably harsher, after Walter calls him from hiding and tries to arrange for him to receive some of the money he has left.
Camera Abuse: When Walter offs Uncle Jack with a headshot, the camera is positioned so that the latter's brains splatter all over it.
Camera Tricks:
Lots of fancy ones, including camera POV shots. In one POV shot the camera takes the place of a shovel's blade; in another the camera takes the POV of money being put into safe deposit boxes.
This show absolutely loves the POV shot up through a solid object and the time lapse shot.
Can't Get Away with Nuthin': The theme of the series. All characters who do the wrong thing, regardless of their intentions, they pay. Dearly. And their families, too.
This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Vince Gilligan: I like to believe there is some comeuppance, that karma kicks in at some point, even if it takes years or decades to happen.
Can't Kill You, Still Need You:
The main plot of Season 4. Gus can't kill Walt and Jesse because he has no one else to cook meth for him. Enforced by Jesse when he kills Gale so that Gus can't kill Walt.
The characters like to take advantage of this trope by forcibly extending it to cover other characters; Walt knows he's needed, so he refuses to work if Jesse's killed, thereby also making him indirectly "needed". Later, Jesse does the same for Walt.
At the end of "Ozymandias", Jesse has become this to Todd.
In "Madrigal," Lydia escapes death at Mike's hands because she can provide methylamine. (Yet another "half measure" he should've avoided.)
Can't Take Criticism: This goes hand in hand with Walt's ego. When Mike calls him out for his ego getting in the way of business, Walt ultimately kills him.
Captain Ersatz: Despite being obviously based on the Aryan Brotherhood, the name of Jack's gang is never stated and the gang's tattoos don't match up with the real-life gang. Of course, their swastika tattoos are meant to primarily communicate this to the viewer.
Captain Obvious:
In S3 "No Más":
Jesse: Your windshield’s broken.
In S4:
Walt: What are you doing?
Skyler: I'm negotiating.
Walt: Why??
Skyler: Because I want to pay less.
Car Fu:
Delivered by Walt to two child-murdering dealers.
Hank cripples one of the Cousins with it, with just one minute's warning.
The Cartel: A very violent Mexican one.
Cassandra Truth: Whenever Walt protests that he didn't kill Hank. By this point he's known as a Consummate Liar and the murderous kingpin of a meth empire, so no one believes him.
Casual Car Giveaway: The Salamanca cousins give away a car they had been using to a family in exchange for some of their clothes. They could've just taken the clothes, but they apparently didn't need the car anymore.
Catch Phrase: Not so much a specific phrase, but Walter will regularly say something along the lines of "It had to be done" or "That's the last time we'll have to kill anyone".
Jesse's "...Bitch!" and "Yo!", with the latter bordering on a Verbal Tic.
Walt has said "Everything I've done, I've done for my family" so many times his neighbors might assume it's his ringtone. Of course, he gets constantly called on it, as the more time passes, the less people buy that excuse.
Celebrity Paradox:
In one episode, Walt and Jr. watch Scarface (1983), which features Steven Bauer (Don Eladio) in his most famous role, Manny. Mark Margolis, who plays Héctor Salamanca, also appears as Alberto in the film.
"Rabid Dog" reveals that the Schraders have the complete Deadwood box set. One wonders if Hank and Marie ever think that the actress who played Martha Bullock looks familiar.
Also in "Rabid Dog", Kuby bugs Badger in an attempt to track down Jesse and has to endure three hours of him talking about Babylon 5, of which a pre-fame Bryan Cranston appeared in one episode.
One which doubles as an Actor Allusion: in "Face Off," when Jesse is being interrogated by the FBI about Brock's ricin poisoning, Jesse explains that he'd heard about ricin on House. Gonzalo Menendez, who plays one of the FBI agents in that very scene, guest-starred in one episode of House.
Celebrity Resemblance:
Lampshaded by Saul Goodman's quote "If you're committed enough, you can make any story work. I once told a woman I was Kevin Costner, and it worked because I believed it." See this link to see the striking resemblance.
This trope is exploited by Ted Beneke on his birthday by having Skyler sing to him "Happy Birthday Mr President" on his birthday simply because she has some resemblance to Marilyn Monroe. As shown here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_GiCz7nPsU
Cerebus Syndrome: Not exactly a light and fluffy show to begin with, but with each successive season the tone becomes tenser and more paranoid, the villains become more powerful and relentless, the characters slip deeper and deeper into amorality and instability, and the comic relief is spread increasingly thin.
Chekhov's Boomerang: The ricin: Having used their original vial in an unsuccessful attempt to kill Tuco during season 2, Walt and Jesse cooked up a new ricin cigarette in season 4 to kill Gus. Walt tried convincing Jesse, ultimately without success, to use it on Gus, and later Walt convinced Jesse that Gus had stolen it and used it to poison Brock, even though Walt was responsible for poisoning the boy, and he actually used Lily of the Valley. In the first part of season 5, Walt planned to use it on Lydia, but changed his mind. Later, Jesse realised that Walt was responsible for stealing the cigarette, and finally turned against him. Over a year later, Walt retrieves it from its hiding place in his now-abandoned home, seals it in a sweetener that Lydia prefers in her tea and places it in the jar at the table where Lydia always sits at the cafe. The last we see of Lydia is her in bed, dealing with the symptoms of ricin poisoning.
Chekhov's Gun
In "Crazy Handful of Nothin", Walt teaches about fulminate of mercury when he tries to explain reactions to his high school students. At the end of the episode, Walt uses the same chemicals to blow up Tuco's lair.
Played straight in "One Minute" where the "on the house" bullet that the Cousins got from the arms dealer is used by Hank to shoot Marco in the face.
Also see the Season 4 premiere we get Chekhov's Box Cutter and the final shot quite possibly gives us Chekhov's Folder.
Saul's identity-eraser guy. When Walt tries to use him in "Crawl Space" he finds out that all their money's been given to Ted by Skyler without his knowledge. In Season 5, Walt suggests that Jesse use him, and he almost does until he finds out about the ricin cigarette. In "Ozymandias", Walt finally uses him in the run from the cops after his family abandons him.
Walter's gun, throughout all of Season 4. It is, however, used as a prominent prop in various scenes where its presence alone has either thematic or plot-relevant resonance. However, he doesn't actually use it until the end of the final episode.
Ted's rug.
Jesse's Roomba vacuum robot, which Walt plants the re-doctored ricin cigarette in to make him think it was just dropped on the floor instead of stolen.
The gun Mike kept in his getaway bag in "Say My Name".
Walt's copy of Leaves of Grass, which the camera makes sure to show in the bathroom in "Gliding Over All" before it becomes very important later.
The knives in the flashback that opens "Ozymandias" come into play in the present day when Walt gets home.
Lydia's Stevia obsession becomes her undoing.
Chekhov's Gunman: Seemingly one-shot characters would routinely come back with more importance to the story, such as Skinny Pete, Badger, Combo, Todd, "Uncle" Jack, and the Schwartzes.
Chekhov's Lecture: Walt's chemistry lectures often foreshadow later events in the episode, either by referring to a chemical process that will be exploited or by metaphorically describing relationships among characters.
Chekhov's Skill:
In "Gray Matter", Badger learning the "helicopter" move from working as a sign-spinner. Later in the episode, when Badger and Jesse are fighting over one batch of rejected meth too many (for Badger, at least), he utilizes the move... using Jesse as the "sign".
"HELICOPTER, BITCH!"
Walt training himself to fast draw his pistol in season 4 apparently becomes a waste of time when he realizes he'll never get a chance to use this ability against Gus, but then he uses it to rescue Jesse at the end of the season.
Chessmaster:
Gus is gradually revealed to be one of these, a reputation cemented halfway through Season 3 when he arranges the death of a leader in the cartel and the elimination of two of the relatives of the man he holds responsible for the death of his friend two decades ago.
Walt gradually becomes one as well as terribly revealed in the last shot of Season 4. Season 4 is a chess match between Walt and Gus, which Walt wins.
Walt becomes an even bigger chessmaster in the series finale.
Children Are Innocent:
Played with. Tomás is an 11-year old murderer, but he was coerced into it. Though when we see him later in the series, he doesn't seem all that broken up about it. His sister even claims that he calmly told her that he killed someone.
Jesse strongly believes in this trope. For one, when Jesse's family's housemaid found a marijuana joint that his parents initially believed was his but actually belonged to his overachieving younger brother, he took the fall, and later stomped on it to prevent him from smoking it. Jesse also pulled out on selling meth to a woman he met in rehab when he discovered she had a child.
Choke Holds:
How Walter finally eliminates Domingo (AKA Crazy Eight) in the third episode. It takes a minute or two and Domingo has time to stab Walter a few times with a shard of broken plate.
Jesse finally exacting his revenge on Todd by choking him as well as breaking his neck with the chains he was bound up in at the end of "Felina".
Chronic Villainy: Walt would always go back to making meth no matter how dangerous the situation is. He gives up his drug business at the end of "Gliding Over All," intending to keep his head down and quietly launder the money he has for the rest of his life. Then Hank realizes that Heisenberg has been right under his nose the whole time...
In "Granite State", faced with the realisation that all his actions were for nothing, Walt calls the DEA to give himself up... and then he sees the Schwartzes on TV, saying just the right thing to remind Walt why he felt bitter and angry enough to become Heisenberg in the first place. By the time the DEA shows up to arrest him, Walt is gone. Somewhat subverted when he actually gets back as it turns out he's becomes an admittedly dark Atoner.
Cigarette of Anxiety: Skyler starts lighting up again as the stress of her marriage and Walt's illegal activities get to her. Walt bums a smoke off of Jesse one stressful episode, which leads the latter to ask if Walt "has enough cancer already."
City People Eat Sushi: The simple, low-brow Hank gives his fancy wife Marie grief for eating it in one episode by pointing out that they live nowhere near the ocean. Accordingly, sushi must be seen as even more exotic in Albuquerque than in coastal communities.
Closed Circle: "Fly" has Jesse and Walt trapped in an airtight lab trying to kill a fly to prevent contamination; since they can't cook meth with the contaminant, and they can't leave until they've cooked, they spend the episode trapped.
Cliffhanger:
A number of episodes, though only season 3 has come close to having the season finale variety.
Probably the most dramatic one is at the end of the season 5 episode "To'hajiilee", when the episode ends with Hank and Gomez in a shoot-out with Jack and his men, in the middle of the desert with nobody to help them. The episode ending without a death probably conned a lot of viewers into assuming that Vince Gilligan would have killed them off at the end of the episode if he was going to do it, rather than at the start of the following episode...
The mid-season finale for Season 5, "Gliding Over All," in which Hank at long last finds out that Walt is Heisenberg.
Cliffhanger Copout: Four episodes in season 2 open with flashforwards to the ending of the season, depicting workers in hazmat suits retrieving objects and debris from Walter's house and two corpses in body bags in his front driveway. Many viewers speculated that there had been some sort of explosion in Walter's house related to his meth cooking and that at least one major character may have been killed off. Instead, the Twist Ending of season 2 is a plane crash which kills 167 people but otherwise has no real impact on the main characters at all.
Coincidental Broadcast: In "Granite State", Walt has finally decided to turn himself in. Then he notices the bartender flipping through channels and sees an interview with his old partners, specifically talking about him. Keep in mind that this is the first TV broadcast he's seen in months, and that's the show that happens to be on.
Cold Open / The Teaser: A staple of the show. Many episodes open with a scene that is utterly fascinating, beautifully shot, almost a work of art in itself — and sometimes without a single word being spoken. Sometimes ends up being crucial to The Reveal for the episode (most recently in "Dead Freight"), or for the entire season (Season 2).
Color-Coded Characters: described here
Walter - Green
Jesse - Red or Yellow
Skyler - Blue
Hank - Brown/Orange
Marie - Purple. Easily the most dramatic example. Clothes, accessories, kitchen decor, purple, purple, purple.
Walt Jr. - Orange, but not tied as closely to it
Compound Title:
"The Cat's in the Bag..."/"...And the Bag's in the River"
There's the "737"/"Down"/"Over"/"ABQ" foreshadowing.
Concealment = Cover: Pretty thoroughly averted throughout the series. Probably the most notable example is the finale, wherein Walt kills off nearly all the Aryan Brotherhood group with an M60 parked outside the building they were in. The trope is possibly played straight in the Tuco/Hank shootout, although Tuco was wounded (and firing a rifle one-handed), and both were firing pretty wildly at first.
Confess in Confidence:
Shady attorney Saul invokes this trope by having his kidnappers give him a dollar so that they become his clients. However, once he becomes a partner in their criminal enterprise, they are no longer protected by attorney–client privilege, which he fails to mention to them. It is implied that Walt and Jesse do not really know much about the law.
Played more straight when Walt's wife Skyler begins to see through his lies and visits a divorce lawyer to discuss how she can separate from him without hurting their family in the process. Before confessing that she knows Walt is a drug dealer, she asks the lawyer in question about the confidentiality issue, who points out that since she's a lawyer and not a cop, she only has her client's best interests at heart.
In season 2, Walt uses this trope in combination with Confess to a Lesser Crime in order to convince his psychiatrist to approve his release from the hospital. After assuring that the therapist is ethics-bound to keep his secret, Walt admits that there was no fugue state, but lies and says he simply ran away because he was overwhelmed by the combination of his disease, Skylar's unplanned pregnancy, and their financial troubles.
Confess to a Lesser Crime:
In the first season, Skyler confronts Walt about his odd behavior and consorting with Jesse Pinkman. He tells her he's been buying pot from Pinkman. She immediately confronts Pinkman at his house.
Jesse: And why'd you go and tell her I was selling you weed?
Walt: Because somehow it seemed preferable to admitting that I cook crystal meth and killed a man.
At the beginning of the second season, Walt confesses to changing the channel on Tio's soaps rather than attempting to poison Tuco.
A few episodes later, Walt admits the true nature of his "fugue state" to his therapist, but leaves out the meth, kidnapping, and gun battle.
Skyler explains away all of Walt's bizarre behavior and sudden, inexplicable funds with an elaborate lie about a card counting spree in underground casinos.
In Season 5, Walt lets Marie know about Skyler's affair with Ted, so that it would appear that she was stressing about Ted's visit to the hospital, and not Walt's descent into ruthlessness.
Walt threatens to do this later in the fifth season to get Hank off his back: he confesses (on a videotape) to being the methamphetamine cook who created and produced Blue Sky... on the orders of Hank Schrader, the real Heisenberg, who used what he learned as a DEA agent to create a successful meth empire.
Consummate Liar:
Walt, who lies in order to conceal his drug activities as well as out of a sense of pride. He's frequently placed on the spot, however, and his lies vary in quality from rather lame to masterful.
Skyler eventually shows that she can sometimes improve on Walt's lies when required.
Marie is shown to have a hobby of showing up at open houses and making up elaborate lies about her life. She goes to these open houses in order to steal things from the homeowners. This topic is never really expanded upon, though.
Continuity Nod:
The teddy bear eye in season 2, and Walt's method for disposing of a body with acid in the season 4 premiere.
A number of subtle ones emerge in "Gliding Over All":
The Cold Open features a close up of a fly not unlike the cold open of the episode "Fly" (with which this episode shares a writer).
The ricin vial that Walt hid back in "Madrigal" makes an appearance.
Walt has a bandage on his wrist, covering the burn he gave himself two episodes ago.
In a run-down hotel room we see a copy of the same painting that Walt looks at while getting treatment for cancer.
We see all nine of Mike's hazard pay recipients in prison as they are getting murdered.
The paper towel holder that Walt punched repeatedly at the end of "4 Days Out" back in Season 2.
Gale's Walt Whitman obsession and the letters W.W.
"Blood Money" has a whole slew of them when Hank goes over case files while trying to piece together an investigation against Walt. Among the case files we see a slew of photographs of many dead past characters as well as the the surveillance tape of Walt and Jesse stealing methylamine back at the end of Season 1.
Walt's pants (which he ditched in the desert in the pilot episode) make an appearance in "Ozymandias" as Walt is rolling the barrel across the desert.
In "Felina", after retrieving the ricin, Walt stands in the middle of his now-wrecked living room, on the exact same spot where he first got the idea to cook meth two years before.
Walt's appearance during the latter half of "Felina" (full head of hair, green shirt, white undershirt, beige pants and jacket) mirrors his appearance in the pilot.
Contrived Coincidence:
Every major plot beat in Season 2 contributes something, in one way or another, to the events that lead up to the season finale, leading to several instances of this trope. In particular, the conflict Left Hanging with Tuco at the end of Season 1 had to be dealt with quickly, as his actor was uncomfortable playing the character and asked to be killed off.
In Season 2, Jesse's friend Combo gets killed by Tomás. In Season 3, Jesse's new girlfriend Andrea turns out to be Tomás's sister.
In "Granite State", just moments after Walt decides to turn himself in to the police, he just so happens to turns his attention to a television interview of Gretchen and Elliot minimizing his role in the founding of Grey Matter Technology, which angers him so much, he decides to resurrect Heisenberg one more time.
In "Felina", Lydia phones Todd moments after Walt has killed all the neo-Nazis. Walt picks up the phone and tells her he's poisoned her. There'd be no other way of her (and the viewers) learning this.
Cool Old Guy: Mike is one of the most dangerous characters on the show, as he has an entire career's worth of experience and is exceptionally well trained. One of the main reasons he saves up money is to set it aside for his granddaughter.
Cop/Criminal Family: Walter White becomes a drug dealer and his brother-in-law, Hank, is a DEA cop. Emphasized when Walt's wife, Skyler, becomes a white-collar criminal through her boss's fraud, and then Skyler joins in on Walt's "business." When Walter's criminal lifestyle is exposed in season 5B, this even causes a rift with Skyler's sister Marie, who sides firmly with Hank.
Corrupt the Cutie: Skyler is a straight arrow in Season 1, but as Walt's behavior is revealed to her, she engages in increasingly sketchy business dealings, shows herself to be a talented money-launderer, and even advocates murdering Jesse when he becomes a direct threat to their family.
Corruption of a Minor: Two drug dealers have the 11-year-old Tomas Cantillo involved in their operation.
"Could Have Avoided This!" Plot: Walt almost immediately realizes this about the tense showdown with Mike Ehrmantraut that ends in the latter's death. As soon as he calms down, it occurs to him that he could have gotten the names he wanted from Lydia, who was the one who wanted them dead in the first place.
CPR: Clean, Pretty, Reliable: Subverted — after beating one of his men senseless to make a point, Tuco demands Walt perform CPR on the basis that he's "smart". He clearly knows as much about CPR as Walt does about drug deals, and it doesn't work anyway.
Tuco: Breathe into his mouth!
Walt: NO, THEY DON'T TEACH THAT ANYMORE! It doesn't work!
Cradle of Loneliness:
After Jane's death, Jesse can be seen cradling his cell phone, then calling her number just to hear her speaking on her voice mail, until her line is finally disconnected.
Walt still holds on to his wedding ring during his time of isolation in the middle of New Hampshire. When it doesn't fit his finger anymore due to the chemotherapy and harsh living conditions, he ties it around his neck.
Creature of Habit: Lydia, who always sits at the same table in the same cafe at the same time and day every week, and orders the same drink and insists on the same brand of sweetener. This turns out to be a Fatal Flaw; Walt is able to arrange her death just by replacing a single packet of Stevia with ricin.
Crocodile Tears
Walt tells Hank a sob story about his marriage and fakes tears, reckoning that Hank will contrive a reason to leave for a moment while Walt composes himself. When Hank goes to bring them both coffee, Walt plants bugs in his office.
Used by Walt again masterfully in Season Five's "Confessions" in a recording to be released in the event of his death, to blatantly implicate Hank as the mastermind behind Heisenberg.
Cross-Referenced Titles: "No Más"/"Más", "Half-Measures"/"Full Measure".
Cruel to Be Kind: Walt does this twice in "Ozymandias". First, during the phone call with Skyler, he makes himself appear as abusive and monstrous as possible to the police listening in, hoping to make the police believe that Skyler was an unwilling accomplice to his crimes instead of a willing participant. Second, knowing that Marie was likely present as well, he specifically makes it seem as though he killed Hank to confirm to her that he really is dead and give her some form of closure.
Cutlery Escape Aid: Krazy-8 steals a shard of the plate Walt served his food on after Walt breaks it, planning to use it to stab Walt later.
Cut Lex Luthor a Check:
We establish pretty early on that Walter is a highly competent chemist, with the knowledge necessary to help found a highly successful high tech startup, who has a chip on his shoulder about being having to settle for a modest life as a science teacher. So, it's a bit strange that in the 20 years or so between cashing out of his start up and being diagnosed with cancer it apparently never occurred to him to become a chemical engineer or something, which would be well within his competency, stable, and probably well paying enough to satisfy his ego (at least Season 1 Walter's ego, anyways).
Adding to this, his co-founders from his highly successful startup do, quite literally, offer to write him a check at one point
Gus owns quite a few legitimate businesses that would see him living quite comfortably on their own. The fact that he must "hide in plain sight" means that he cannot actually spend all the millions that he's raking in through his illegal meth trade. What's the point of it, then? A flashback episode in season 4 suggests that his entire meth enterprise has been fueled out of a desire for revenge against the cartels that murdered his partner and humiliated him.
Walter lampshades this when commenting on Gale's amazing coffee-making skills:
Walt: Why the hell are we making meth?
In Season 5, now that the Cartel and Gus are both gone and the Whites own a prosperous car wash (and more cash than they can reasonably launder through it in years), Walt could just quit. He doesn't, emphasizing how far his priorities have changed.
Cutting Back to Reality:
In the episode "Cancer Man", a paranoid and hopelessly methed-up Jesse Pinkman flees through the back yard after seeing two menacing-looking bikers approaching his house with machetes and grenades. A cut to outside the house reveals that they were just Mormon missionaries.
Jesse's first scene in "Felina" features him daydreaming of carpentry, putting the finishing touches on a beautifully handcrafted box. Satisfied with his work, he steps away from the bench with the box still in hand - and then we cut back to reality with a loud clank. He's still chained to the ceiling in Jack Welker's meth lab, bearded, scarred and traumatized for life; the "box" is actually the latest ingredient of the meth that the neo-Nazis are forcing him to cook.
Cutting the Knot / Stating the Simple Solution:
While discussing methods of recovering/destroying Gus Fring's laptop from a police evidence locker, Walt suggests several complex methods of doing so — infiltration, smuggling in an explosive or incendiary device, breaking in from the outside using explosive charges — which Mike dismisses as impractical due to the vault's construction and countermeasures. Jesse's suggestion — use a powerful electromagnet to wipe the hard drive and destroy the laptop (and countless other items) through blunt force. Crude but ultimately effective.
In "Four Days Out", while stranded in the wilderness due to the RV's battery running flat, Jesse frustratedly tries to coax Walt into figuring out a means of escape by MacGyvering something together. Among several laughable suggestions — including building a robot or an alternate vehicle from the RV's chassis — comes the sensible (and actually doable) notion of building a new battery out of the assorted contents of their rolling lab.
After committing to make 4 lbs of meth for Tuco — impossible due to the restriction on purchasing pseudoephedrine in bulk — Walt indicates they will switch to a P2P cook, which relies on them being able to obtain methylamine as a precursor. When hiring a group of professionals to steal the precursor proves too expensive, Walt suggests they steal it themselves using homemade thermite. He then goes on to describe how a German WWII cannon — the Gustav gun — was able to withstand sustained bombing, but could be crippled through the same application of thermite.
In "Felina", Walt tries and fails to hotwire a car, managing to give himself a minor shock in the process. After a brief panic when he thinks a cop is going to hassle him, he thinks to check above the sun screen, and the keys drop straight into his lap.
Daddy's Girl / Manipulative Bastard: Jane to her father in Season 2's Phoenix when he finds she and Jesse are back on drugs and goes to call the police. She uses a variety of techniques, including emotional blackmail, reminding him of the time she left and he didn't water her houseplants so they died, overreacting to 'being judged', and telling her father that she and Jesse talked about rehab every night. It worked.
Dark Reprise: When Walter calls the DEA from the bar in New Hampshire, the opening theme returns, sounding quite a bit darker than it usually did.
Darker and Edgier: Seasons 2, 4 and 5B are considerably darker than their odd number counterparts.
The Dark Side Will Make You Forget: Walt starts making meth trying to help his family and pay for his cancer treatment, but keeps cooking out of pure pride and greed.
Damn, It Feels Good to Be a Gangster!: The entire series is an exploration and deconstruction of this trope.
Don Eladio plays it straight, with an opulent house and swimming pool, exotic jewelery and liquor, and a bevy of bikini-clad girls at his disposal. Notably he never crosses the border, remaining in Mexico where it's safe to flaunt his wealth.
The most successful criminals on the show make a point of averting this trope, laundering their money through legitimate businesses and avoiding extravagant purchases to keep from being noticed by the law. Walt starts off this way before beginning to believe his own hype in Season 5, buying expensive cars and inadvertantly leaving a clue that makes Hank realize Walt is Heisenberg.
Jesse tries to embrace this trope several times, buying an expensive house and running a 24/7 party in it; however he ends up alienating his friends, wasting his money because he can't possibly spend all of it, and the girls he meets are meth-heads with no real interest in him.
The Dandy: Saul wears very colorful suits that are often adorned with a flower, ribbon or other ornament.
A Day in the Limelight:
Before he was solidified as basically being the show's co-lead Jesse gets a lot of focus in season 1's "Cancer Man" which goes into his home life and family background more than any episode up to that point.
"Peekaboo" also counts for Jesse.
"Negro Y Azul" in Season 2 and "One Minute" in Season 3 for Hank.
"Open House" features an oddly heavy amount of focus on Marie.
"Hermanos" in Season 4 for Gus. The episode focuses more on him than any other character and gives a look into his Mysterious Past and provides a lot of subtext for his relationship with the Cartel, Tio in particular.
"Madrigal" features a lot of Mike being a badass.
"Fifty One" is this for Skyler. Unsurprisingly, it is also the episode that won Anna Gunn her Emmy.
"Better Call Saul" obviously serves as a day in the limelight for Saul, and to a lesser extent, Badger.
Deadly Euphemism:
In "Buried", when Saul wants to suggest that Walt have someone killed:
Saul: Have you given any thought to sending him on a trip to Belize?
Walt: Belize?
Saul: Yeah. Belize. You know, where, uh, where Mike went to. Off on a trip to... Belize.
In "Rabid Dog", Walt criticises Saul's mealy-mouthed circumlocutions in the area of having people killed; "You're full of colourful metaphors, aren't you, Saul. 'Belize', 'Old Yeller'..." Later in the same episode, Skyler has to clarify whether Walt is using these when he's talking about Jesse.
Walt: I'm gonna... I'm gonna talk to him. Make him see reason.
Skyler: Talk to him. Make him see reason. [beat] So, I'm clear... these are just euphemisms you're using here, right?
Death Montage: In "Gliding Over All", there's a prison montage of the 9 "legacy" members of Gus' drug cartel being shanked or burned alive.
Decapitation Strike: Big Bad Gus Fring ostensibly surrenders his entire business to a rival Mexican cartel. He is invited to the Don's hacienda in Mexico, and after the 'negotiation' ends, Gus poisons himself, the Don and all his lieutenants with a laced bottle of rare tequila. He then escapes quickly enough to get himself medically treated before the poison kills him too.
Deceased Fall-Guy Gambit: Walt has a chance to pin the whole "Heisenberg" thing on Gale... but alcohol and pride make him tell Hank that the guy doesn't seem like he's smart enough, and he must be working for someone else.
Defiant to the End: Even with an injured leg and Walt's pleadings to save his life from Jack, Hank refuses to take any of his offers and gets killed by Jack. Though he's likely right that it was going to end the same anyway.
Deliberate Values Dissonance: Hank's boisterous, wise-cracking personality can seem downright racist, sexist, classist, or otherwise politically incorrect all around; and yet, when the chips are down, he is a cop of true integrity and probably the most morally responsible character in the show. Until perhaps the second half of season five.
Delusions of Eloquence: After hearing the term 'Kafkaesque" in rehab, Jesse assumes it means bad in general because he's Book Dumb. The few times he says it, the word makes no sense in context.
Descent into Addiction: An early story arc depicts Jesse (already a habitual user of crystal meth and weed) being introduced to heroin by his girlfriend Jane and slowly becoming addicted. After Jane overdoses, Walt sends Jesse to a rehab facility and he remains clean for most of the rest of the series.
Description Cut: Done several times; one particularly notable one involves a couple of addicts who have stolen an ATM saying that they've committed a "victimless crime", followed by a cut to a shot of the clerk at the store from which they stole the ATM lying stabbed to death in a pool of blood.
Despair Event Horizon: Walt seems to have reached one in the beginning of the episode "Salud", after getting the shit beaten out of him by his surrogate son Jesse. However, his real son helps him through it. He promptly returns to it in "Crawl Space", when he learns that Gus declared him and his family free game and all of the money they had was given to Ted Beneke by Skyler.
The moment in season two when Walt learns that his cancer is in remission. Usually, this is incredible news, but for Walt, it's outright tragic, which Walt later explains to Jesse in "Fly". He would've much preferred if he succumbed to the cancer after his daughter's birth. It's implied that this ideal death would enable Walt to avoid any heavy consequences with his drug manufacturing, but with the remission, Walt will probably be alive a little longer than he assumed. Cue Walt beating his fists on a towel dispenser.
It now seems that Walt has finally gone beyond the line of despair when in "Granite State", his son insults him multiple times for supposedly killing Hank and disowns him as a father, even when Walt tearfully begs him to receive the money he's giving to him through a conduit. He lets the DEA know about his location and stays a bit longer until his pride is hit by an appearance on Charlie Rose by Gray Matter in which they discuss his involvement in the company. He leaves immediately afterwards.
Destroy the Evidence: Several times in the show Walter will cover his tracks. It works, as even after Hank figures out that Walt is Heisenberg, he is unable to arrest him due to having only circumstantial evidence. That is, until he and Jesse trick Walt into confessing to multiple murders over the phone.
Destructive Romance: Walter and Skyler's relationship becomes this.
Jesse and Jane count as well, as Jesse pulls Jane back into her addiction and Jane introduces him to heroin.
Deuteragonist: Jesse Pinkman, whose character arc and development are given just as much importance and later runs parallel to Walt's character arc.
Diabolus ex Machina: Not related to the main plot, but honestly, can you say anything else about the end of "ABQ"? Fittingly for the trope, Vince Gilligan himself described it as a "Lucifer ex machina".
Though it's obliquely foreshadowed by the first scene of the episode in which it happens, the discovery that some random kid saw the methylamine heist, followed immediately by seemingly mild-mannered Todd gunning the boy down is a horrifying left-field turn from Walt and Jesse's perspective.
Didn't Think This Through: Walt starts manufacturing crystal meth without ever really considering how his family might react when they discover he is a drug kingpin and a murderer, the consequences for them should he get caught, how he could safely launder the huge sums of money he is earning without attracting suspicion, or that his DEA agent brother in-law would eventually deduce that he is the biggest meth dealer in the south west USA.
Dies Wide Open:
Jane starts choking when she's asleep. When she finally dies, her eyelids slide partially open. She's seen later with her eyes still open.
Walt himself, in the closing shot of "Felina", lying on his back and staring at the ceiling of the Neo-Nazi meth lab.
Disaster Dominoes: In "4 Days Out", Walter tells Jesse to not put the keys to the RV on the counter where they're cooking to avoid losing them, so he puts them in the ignition which results in the battery dying. Then they try to use the generator to jump it, but the generator catches fire, and Jesse uses the last of their drinking water to extinguish it right before Walter gets a fire extinguisher.
Disc-One Final Boss: Tuco in season 2, the Cousins in season 3, Don Eladio in Season 4, Hank in season 5. Gus for the whole series.
Disposing of a Body: Walter and Jesse dispose of bodies with acid, to the point that Mike decides that it's their specialty.
The Dividual: Whether it's down to Twintuition or simply excellent planning, the Salamanca brothers do everything they do together, with a chilling commonality of purpose, and barely speaking a word. Brr.
The Don: Gus is a white-collar version of this trope, as well as one of best examples of a white-collar criminal in modern television. As the undisputed leader of a large criminal organization whose illicit businesses are money laundering and meth distribution, he's incredibly professional in keeping a low profile and presenting himself as a honest businessman and philanthropist who gladhands with high-ranking DEA agents. Basically, he's everything Heisenberg wants to be: Feared, powerful, rich, and one of the biggest drug kingpins in the region, with state-of-the-art infrastructure.
Don't You Dare Pity Me!: When Walt refuses some charity from Gretchen Schwartz out of pride and a lingering grudge, Gretchen can only react with shock and pity. This infuriates Walt into delivering a Precision F-Strike.
Does This Remind You of Anything?:
When Hank asks Walt to place a tracking bug on Gus's vehicle, he utters this remark:
Hank: Walt, don't make me beg here. Just stick it in there!
The scene where Jesse tries heroin for the first time plays out very much like he's losing his virginity. It even takes place on his bed, with his girlfriend.
Jesse: [with breathless anticipation] What's it feel like?
Jane: There's a chill, and then... You'll see. I'll meet you there...
[they kiss, he gives her a small nod before she pushes the needle into his arm]
During the episode "Over," Walt finds fungus in the floorboards and becomes fixated on cutting out the rot before it undermines his home, which is practically a Literal Metaphor.
In a show about the drug trade, much of Walt's character arc parallels the behavior of a drug addict. He starts out small, but begins gradually cooking progressively larger batches of meth, committing progressively more violent crimes, and sinking progressively deeper into the criminal underworld after discovers the thrill of being a meth cook. He starts out trying to rationalize his actions by claiming that he needs the money for legitimate reasons (first to leave money for his family, then to pay for cancer treatments), but those reasons eventually collapse after his cancer is cured, his family leaves him, and he ends up with more money than he can spend in a single lifetime. By the end of the show, he has ceased to cook meth for logical reasons, and only does it because he can't stop.
Dope Slap: Mike gives Jesse one in "ABQ" when he refuses to say "I woke up, I found her, that's all I know", which is what he'll be saying to the people that arrive.
Double-Meaning Title: Many episodes.
The titles "737", "Down", "Over", "ABQ" all refer to events within those episodes, but also foreshadow the plane crash.
"Phoenix" is Jane's birthplace, the name of the Mars Lander shown on TV, a reference to Birth/Death Juxtaposition (Holly is born, Jane dies) and a Cross Referenced Title with "ABQ".
"I See You" has Leonel recognising Walt and attempting to kill him, and also plays on the term "ICU".
"Open House" has Jesse's open-house party and Marie's open-house viewings.
"Shotgun" has Jesse riding shotgun for Mike, and being threatened with one by a stick-up guy.
"Face-Off" has Gus' conflicts with both Walt and Tio Salamanca come to a head, and ends with half his head being blown away.
"Buried" refers to both Walt burying his money at the To'hajiilee reservation, and Declan's buried meth lab in which Lydia takes shelter while Declan's crew is massacred.
"Rabid Dog" makes an explicit parallel between Jesse Pinkman and Old Yeller... but also shows Hank continuing to act outside police protocol and betraying a more ruthless streak than we've seen from him before.
The series finale "Felina" has a doozy. It's a reference to Marty Robbins' song "El Paso" (the song playing on Walt's car radio in the opening scene), which is about a cowboy who dies in his lover's arms after being gunned down by his enemies. It's also an anagram of "Finale", and a sly reference to the chemical formula "FeLiNa" ("Iron, Lithium, and Sodium", which can be seen as shorthand for "Blood, Meth, and Tears").
Downer Ending:
Season 2 ends with Jane dead, Jesse in rehab, Skyler leaving Walt, and the plane crash over Albuquerque.
"Ozymandias" is a downer episode: Hank and Gomez are dead, all but one of Walt's money barrels has been taken by the Aryans, who have also taken Jesse into captivity and forced him to cook for them, and Walt has lost his family, and is forced to go into hiding alone.
Dragon Their Feet: Subverted. After Gus is killed, Mike's immediate reaction is to go kill Walt. He's talked out of it when Walt reveals there's evidence that could implicate them both which needs to be destroyed.
Drama Bomb: "Ozymandias" goes further than the usual Wham Episode, being the ultimate conversation of everything the series has been building up to since the first season.
Dramatic Irony: The show is absolutely filled with dramatic irony. It's difficult to count the number of times a major drug dealer or manufacturer has a casual, friendly chat with a DEA agent or someone they intend to kill.
The Dreaded: By Season 5, Walt is feared by everyone who knows him as Heisenberg.
Jesse: He's the devil!
Drink-Based Characterization: Lydia, a creature of routine, always orders tea with the exact same ingredients. Her habit becomes her undoing.
Driven to Suicide:
In a season 3 episode it is revealed to Walt and the audience that Donald Margolis shot himself after the death of his daughter Jane and subsequent mid-air collision caused by this distraction. We never find out if he survives the attempt.
After Gus Fring was murdered, the DEA began investigating Madrigal Electromotive. Peter Schuler, a criminal business partner, committed suicide by sticking one end of a defibrillator in his mouth and the other over his heart.
Skyler attempts to drown herself in the pool when she becomes too terrified of Walt.
Walt actually attempts suicide near the end of the very first episode, when his capture by police seems imminent. It's only his unfamiliarity with firearms that saves him, and thus dooms all of his future victims.
Drunk with Power: After killing Gus, Walt feels invincible, as if he can do no wrong.
Drop What You Are Doing: In the flash-forward in "Blood Money", Walt's neighbor sees him returning to his now boarded-up house, and freezes, shocked, in the middle of unloading her groceries. He looks across at her and simply says "Hello, Carol," and she drops the bag on the ground.
Drowning My Sorrows:
Walt dealing with the awful news that his cancer is in remission. Dragging his underage son into his tequila-slugging match is something of a Kick the Dog moment.
Walt does it again with Jane's father.
Walt attempts to do this with Mike as a way of cooling off tensions between them. Mike is actually pretty warm to the idea, until Walt suggests killing their boss. Cue a punch in the face.
Drugs Are Bad: A major theme of the show, but not exactly the Aesop conveyed. Walter makes a deal with the devil to provide for his family after his death with drug money. As a result, he becomes a hardened murderer and manipulator, his relationship with his family is irreparably damaged, and his brother-in-law is nearly killed (and later on, actually gets killed). Jesse, for his part, loses his family, kills a person, gets his girlfriend killed, gets another girlfriend killed, and almost dies several times. Jesse's addiction and attempts to cope with his suffering also locks him into a downward spiral. Drugs are also seen having a destructive effect on various minor characters throughout the show. On the flip side, Jesse in particular can keep his drug habit while still functioning, and Gale Boetticher, a drug manufacturer, maintains a very neat lifestyle. Generally, it’s not the drugs themselves that bring the characters’ downfall, but all of the criminal activity and dishonesty and physical danger that comes with it and using them to the point of inability to function that do.
Duct Tape for Everything: In "Ozymandias", Walt wraps his hand in duct tape to bandage a knife wound. By the next episode "Granite State", he's swapped it for a real bandage.
Dumbass Has a Point:
When Walt and Jesse are stuck in the desert in the RV after the battery dies, Jesse starts throwing out suggestions, including stripping down the vehicle to make either a robot or a dune buggy (he was a bit delirious). Believe it or not, this helps Walt strike on the solution that actually does save their lives.
Jesse comes up with a plan to destroy the laptop that can put him, Walt, and Mike away, and then has a hell of a time trying to get Walt and Mike to pay attention to him.
Again, Jesse suggests robbing a train in such a way that no one ever suspects anything was missing. (In fact, the DVD extras see the writers say that Jesse started as "a doofus" and gets much smarter over time.)
Even early on, Jesse showed hints that he wasn't completely idiotic; in 2.01 he is rightfully terrified about Tuco murdering him and Walt to tie up loose ends after what happened in the junkyard.
Jesse: What is that? Conjecture? Are you basing that on that he's got like a normal, healthy brain or something? [...] And that way — that way he just kept staring at us... Saying, You're done. Wh- You're done? You wanna know what that means — I will tell you what that means. That means exactly how it sounds, yo! [...] Right now Tuco's thinking 'Yeah, hey, they cook good meth, but, can I trust them?' What happens, when he decides no?
Dumb Blonde: Invoked by Skyler when she pretends to be Ted's ditzy accountant, in the hope that the IRS investigator will attribute the company's financial irregularities to incompetence rather than fraud. It works.
Dying Moment of Awesome:
Héctor Salamanca of all people gets one, giving Gus one last look of hate before blowing them all up.
Hank's absolute refusal to accept Walt's attempts to save his life, and final words of "My name is ASAC Schrader. And you can go fuck yourself" followed shortly by "Do what you're going to-" before being shot through the head.
Mike: "Shut the fuck up and let me die in peace."
Gus walks out of the room where a bomb has gone off, calmly straightens his tie — and falls over dead with half of his face burned down to the skull.
The Dying Walk: The show loved this trope. Gus walks out of the room after it was blown up and then adjusts his tie so he can Face Death with Dignity, Mike walks away from the spot where Walter shot him and finds a peaceful place to die, and Walt walks away from his final confrontation with the Nazis and goes to the nearby chemistry lab (chemistry labs having been the place where he was probably always happiest in his life) and dies there.

Funny / Breaking Bad
Season 1 
"Pilot"
After recently discovering he has lung cancer, Walt is spacing out at his job on the car wash when his boss comes to ask him to wipe down cars.
Walter: Fuck you, Bogdan.
Bogdan: What?
Walter: I said FUCK YOU! AND YOUR EYEBROWS!
[storms out, knocking stuff from the wall like he's drunk, and grabs his crotch]
Walter: WIPE DOWN THIS!
When the episode is done explaining How We Got Here, it turns out that the sirens from the beginning were actually fire trucks coming to put out the brush fire that Emilio accidentally started. As they drive past, Walt quickly hides his gun behind his back.
Jesse's introduction - escaping out of the nearby condo's second story window in his underwear, and falling off of the roof while trying to get his pants on.
Walter calmly explaining how he took down Krazy-8 and Emilio - and then puking his guts out afterwards.
Jesse and Walt's conversation about "cow houses".
"The Cat's in the Bag"

Jesse trying to call Walt in after finding Krazy-8 still alive in the RV. Happens while Walt is having breakfast with his family. The whole phone conversation must be seen to be believed:
Jesse Pinkman: [over the answering machine] Hello, Mr. White. This is AT&T calling. Are you happy with your current long distance service? Because if you're not, I would definitely, really really love to talk to you as soon as possible about...
Walter White: Listen, I am having breakfast with my family right now, and I really don't appreciate these sales calls.
The wonderbra conversation that occurs while Walt is trying to ignore the phone must not be forgotten, either. It's the faces of all concerned that sells it. It's cringe comedy gold.
Jesse's Funny Answering Machine message and Skyler's reaction to it.
YO YO YO 1-4-8 3 TO THE 3 TO THE 6 TO THE 9, REPRESENTIN' THE ABQ, WADDUP, BI-ATCH?! Leave it at the tone.
Skyler goes on the internet to identify Jesse after he made the call to Walt. What she finds is his MySpace-esque webpage with hilariously awful rap music playing in the background.
Skyler: What the hell is a MILF* ?
The Freeze-Frame Bonus for his page is equally hilarious: His dating profile (he's "totally cool with ethnics... as long as you're SMOKIN HOT YO!") and his alleged "blue belt with shuriken certification." His education? The oft-ridiculed DeVry University and THE STREETS, YO!
After Walt tells Skyler that Jesse is his pot dealer, she goes to his house to confront him — just when he's in the process of moving Emilio's body from the RV to his house. Jesse's utter fear turns to comical confusion when he realizes that Skyler is reprimanding him for something else.
Jesse Pinkman: Look, lady, whatever you're selling, I ain't buying, yo.
Skyler White: Well, my name is Skyler White, yo. My husband is Walter White, yo. He told me everything.
Jesse Pinkman: [shocked] Seriously?
Skyler White: That's right. And just so you know, my brother-in-law is a DEA agent. And I will not hesitate to call him. Not if I have to. Understood? This is your one and only warning. Do not sell marijuana to my husband.
Jesse Pinkman: [confused] Okay.
Skyler White: I mean it. Don't call our house again. You stay away from him, or you'll be one sorry individual. You got me?
Jesse Pinkman: Uh, yeah, yeah. I think so, yeah. No more... marijuana. I can, I can dig it.
Skyler White: You can dig it. Wonderful.
The scene's made even more hilarious by Skyler being Sophisticated as Hell through repeating some of Jesse's slang.
When Skyler is about to leave, she suggests that Jesse find a different line of work. Jesse responds with a half-hearted thumbs-up and an “Okay” with a strange look on his face, which is to be expected considering the odd situation likely confused him and the fact that he was high. Skyler is visibly weirded out and quickly makes her way back to her car.
Krazy-8 running into a tree and knocking himself unconscious.
When Walt and Jesse have Krazy-8 chained to a pipe in Jesse's basement. He wakes up and asks Walt for water. Walt slides over two jugs of water, a plate with a sandwich and potato chips, a bucket, a roll of toilet paper, and a bottle of hand sanitizer.
The montage of Walt attempting to roll a joint.
Jesse walks in on him lighting up. At first, he's amused, but then he realizes...
Jesse Pinkman: You smoking weed? Oh my god!...wait a minute, is that my weed? What the hell, man! Make yourself at home, why doncha!
Jesse underestimating how important a plastic bin is when Disposing of a Body with acid: Bloody Hilarity Ensues.
Jesse Pinkman: I barely got him in the bathtub!
Walter White: Bathtub? What– what do you mean, "bathtub"?
Jesse Pinkman: Yeah, that's another thing. Why you got me running around town, trying to find some stupid piece of plastic when I have a perfectly good tub I can use?
Walter White: Oh, God. [Walter pokes his head into the hallway, where the acid soup and partially dissolved Emilio are starting to drip through the ceiling. Realizing what's going to happen, Walt and Jesse back away just as the bloody partially dissolved remains come crashing through the ceiling and on the floor]
Walter White: I'm sorry, what were you asking me? Oh, yes, that stupid plastic container I asked you to buy. You see, hydrofluoric acid won't eat through plastic. It will, however, dissolve metal, rock, glass, ceramic. So there's that.
This same moment is listed under Nightmare Fuel, so that alone should tell you what kind of humor this show likes to dish out.
"And the Bag's in the River"

The ENTIRETY of the Toilet fight scene. "GET OFF THE TOILET!!"
"Cancer Man"

Hank's comeback during the "Operation Breathmint" exchange at the beginning.
Jesse sees two bikers pull up and approach his front door, armed with a machete and a grenade, respectively, so he flees with his bag of meth. Why is this funny? It's because he's actually high as shit and the "bikers" were actually Mormon missionaries.
After Jesse comes back home, his parents discuss the matter and firmly resolve to 'lay down the law' with him. They go into the dining room to confront him... only to find Jesse politely setting the table for dinner. His parents slink away with an attitude of "Goddammit, we can't yell at him now."
"Why Mr. White Loves Chemistry."
"Grat Matter"

Badger pretty much has one in every scene he's in.
Helicopter, bitch!
Special mention has to go to the minisode featuring him and Walt. It has to been seen to be believed.
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"

Listen closely in the "This is not meth" scene. After the explosion, as debris is raining down, you can hear Howard Dean's "Primal Scream".
"A No Rough Stuff Type Deal"

Jesse and Walter cooking meth in Jesse's basement... and not realizing there is an open house about to happen.
Earlier, a couple being shown the house and seeing where the bathtub dropped through the floor.
A little girl walks past the basement door when Walt peeks out of it (still in his safety gear). The little "shhhh." he gives sells that scene.
When the smell of the meth lab starts to become apparent to the people upstairs, the real estate agent (still smiling) nonchalantly sprays air freshener.
And then you have Jesse's method of getting rid of everyone: being Jesse.
Jesse: You ain't seeing the basement, bitch. You got that? Is that sinking in? Now, beat it.
When Hank and Walt sneak out onto into the backyard for some air during the baby shower, Hank lights up a cigar leading to the following exchange.
Hank: I'm sorry, I wasn't thinking.
Walt: No, no, no, no. It's okay. You mind if I have one?
Hank: You think that's a good idea?
Walt: Hank, I've already got lung cancer.
Hank: Okay, you've got me there.
Walt and Jesse stealing chemicals, carrying a 90 gallon drum between them wearing bobble-headed ski masks while alarms are sounding, the security guard they locked in a porta-john is beating on the door to get out and the little red light on the guard's golf cart is still flashing.
Hank later sees the video tape of this incident and spends a good deal of time snarking about how stupid they are.
Hank Schrader: Look at this, they're smart enough to use thermite to cut through the lock, but they didn't think to bring a handcart? Try rolling it, morons! It's a barrel! It rolls!
    Season 2 
"Seven Thirty-Seven
Skyler tells Hank about Marie's shoplifting.
Skyler: [takes a deep breath] Marie is a shoplifter, Hank. That's right. That baby tiara she gave me at the shower? She stole it from Gertrude Zachary's. Yeah. I almost got arrested when I went back to return it. And Marie won't admit it. She won't apologize.
Hank: [sighs] Yeah... if I thought you were going to return, I would have never... you know...
[beat]
Skyler: [closes her eyes to register this and then looks back at Hank, pointing at him] You knew about this...
When Hank and Marie have an argument about Marie trying to arrange dinner with the Whites instead of going see a therapist regarding her shoplifting, Marie exasperatedly drives off running over the remote control car of a neighborhood kid, who'd already run into Marie's foot, much to the boy's horror. Hank enters damage control mode and runs over to the kid:
Hank: Sorry about that. She's...
[beat, Hank shrugs and counts out a wad of cash]
"Bit by a Dead Bee"

The Teaser shows a woman in a supermarket gradually collecting Walt's clothes that he has left scattered around until she grudgingly picks up his underwear only to drop it in shock when she sees him walking naked at the end of the aisle.
Marie's recollection of this to Skyler included this golden line:
It wasn't Whole Foods, was it?
After coming home, Walt plays up the incident for laughs when he tries to seduce Skyler, putting on his hat and disrobing in front of her:
Say, honey, I was just thinking about going out to 7-Eleven, do you need anything? Big Gulp? Slim Jim?
Jesse is interrogated by Hank and Gomez about being at Tuco's place (seeing how Hank ended up there because he was tracking the LoJack on Jesse's car). Hector has also been brought in by the police in hopes that he will "identify" Jesse. The cops also know that Hector can understand what they're saying (that ringing his bell means "yes", and no ringing means "no"). An exasperated Jesse says, "Oh, c'mon, this is bullshit! I mean, look at this dude, all right? He doesn't even know what planet he's living on!"
Steven Gomez: Señor, are we on the planet Mars? [no ring] Are we on the planet Saturn? [no ring] Are we on the planet Earth? [Hector rings the bell] Señor, is today Friday? [no ring] Is today Monday? [no ring] Is today Tuesday? [Hector rings the bell]
Hank Schrader: Okay, seems like he's all there. Let's go for it.
Steven Gomez: Señor, was this man at your house yesterday? [no ring] Señor, was this man at your house yesterday?
Hank Schrader: This guy right here, he was at your house, right? Was he doing business with your nephew Tuco?
Steven Gomez: Señor, are you scared of this man? [no ring]
Hank Schrader: Nah, he's not scared. C'mon granddad, why don't you wanna help us out?
[Hector turns to Hank, leans forward, and takes the loudest, wettest shit ever]
Steven Gomez: Oh, man!
Hank Schrader: ...I guess that's a "no."
"Down"

Jesse falling through the roof of a porta-john and coming out dripping in toilet water.
"Why are you blue?"
"Peekaboo"

This exchange:
Jesse: ...Jesus, how the hell do you spell "street" wrong? "S-T-R-E-A-T"?
Skinny Pete: Hey, man, I'm slinging mad volume and fat-stacking Benjies, y'know what I'm saying, I can't be all about like...spellin' and shit!
Jesse rehearsing his "Where's my money, bitch!" speech on Spooge's porch, only to be interrupted by a very friendly mail woman.
Spooge's lady screaming when Jesse pistol-whips Spooge and demands his payment is weird and funny.
Jesse: SHUT UP!
Spooge's lady: [continues screaming]
Jesse: SHUT UP!
Spooge's lady: [quietly screams]
"I ain't no skank." Spooge is berating his wife the whole time he's trying to crack an ATM machine by half-suspending the machine above his head, and when he insults her, she shoves the machine down onto his head. It's appalling and hilarious at the same time.
"Pull it out of your butts right now or I grab a flashlight and some pliers and go exploring."
"Negro y Azul"

The Cold Open is actually a jaunty narcocorrido song, "Negro y Azul: The Ballad of Heisenberg", a song about how a gringo boss named "Heisenberg" has cornered the drug market in the American southwest with his blue meth and how the Mexican cartel are rather cheesed about his product taking away their customers.
But that homie's already dead...
He just doesn't know it yet.
"Jesse, look at me, you are a blowfish."
Hank mocks the idea that drug dealers pray to Jesús Malverde:
Hank Schrader: "Eh, please! Senor Santo, no DEA please, man!"
Badger's hilariously awkward phone message on Jesse's answering machine when Walt is by his apartment, right after Jesse reminds Walt about how the latter said Jesse couldn't competently operate a meth-selling ring.
"Better Call Saul"

The undercover drug bust that starts the episode:
[A nerdy looking guy wanders up to the bus stop bench that Badger is sitting on]
Getz: Hey. You, uh, you sellin'?
Badger: I don't know what you're talking about.
Getz: OK. That's cool. I'm just sayin', you know....if you were selling, I could maybe do with a teenth.
Badger: [stares at him] You're kidding, right? Dude, I so smell bacon.
Getz: What? What are you talking about?
Badger: Oh, gee, I don't know. [points to his left] How about over there, that brown van? That's yours, right?
Getz: What brown van?
Badger: [points it out] Parked all "inconspicuous"! It's a cop van! [points to his right] Yeah! Another one right over there! "Duke City Flowers"? Come on! Can't you at least be original? [laughs]
Getz: Dude, I just wanna get high!
Badger: A flower van! Uh, you know what you should do is a garbage truck. Seriously, and I don't mean to disrespect, but if you put a bunch of cops in the back of a garbage truck, there's no way I'm seriously thinking that there's cops in the back of a garbage truck! It's a freebie, yo. Just think about it. Think about it, boys! [Getz sighs and suddenly stands up]
Getz: All right. I'm hitting it.
Badger: Whoa! You dudes give up that easy?
Getz: I'm not a cop!
Badger: Then lift your shirt. Show me you're not wearing a wire.
Getz: All right, you know what? Just to show you you're being an asshole.... [Getz lifts his shirt and shows his midsection to Badger]
Badger: Ahh! I'm blinded by white!
Getz: Douchebag.
Badger: Ah, come on. I was joking. Come on. Don't walk away angry. Sit down. Come on. [Getz reluctantly sits back down on the bench next to Badger] I mean, what are you complaining about? You got abs, man. Kind of.
Getz: Whatever, dude. I'm not even sure I wanna buy anymore. I — I think you turned me off to the whole thing.
Badger: Come on, don't be like that. I just — I just need you to prove it, you know? Prove you're not a cop.
Getz: How the hell am I supposed to do that?
Badger: I don't know. [beat] Hey, I've got it. [points to a man across the street] Go over there and punch that dude right in the face.
Getz: Which dude? [Badger points the guy out] That dude?
Badger: Yeah.
Getz: No way! He'd kick my ass!
Badger: [laughs] True to that. Ugh! This is so hard, you know?
Getz: Yeah. [He gets an idea] I know. It's simple: Uh, if you ask a cop if he's a cop, he's, like, obligated to tell you. It's in the Constitution.
Badger: Constitution of America? [Getz shrugs] Huh.
Getz: So-so go ahead and ask.
Badger: You a cop?
Getz: No, no. Not like that. Ask it like, official.
Badger: Are you a police officer?
Getz: [holds up his hand as if taking an oath] No. I am not a police officer.
Badger: Okay then. $175 for a teenth.
Getz: Whoa.
Badger: Price is the price, yo.
Getz: [after a beat] All right. [Getz reaches into his pocket and pulls out a couple dollar bills, which he hands over to Badger. Badger gets up, walks over to the garbage can near the bench, and sets down his soda can. He then pulls a bag of meth out of the can and walks back to the bench. He sits down and discreetly passes the meth over to Getz]
Badger: Here you go. Enjoy.
Getz: Thanks, man.
[Getz stuffs the meth in his pocket, gets up, and starts to walk away, but then he turns around. As Badger relaxes, Getz puts his right foot down on the bench, reaches down, and suddenly draws a gun from a concealed ankle holster]
Getz: Albuquerque Police! You're under arrest! Get on the ground! [Police sirens wail] Get on your stomach now! On your stomach! Get on the ground! [Badger drops to the ground as a pair of vans screech to a stop alongside the bench. A couple of plainclothes cops jump out and train their guns on Badger]
Cop in Van: Hold it right there! Don't move! Stay down. [One of the cops leans down to put his handcuffs on Badger]
In Saul's intro scene, look at the reaction the detective has when Saul comes into the interrogation room. It's like he immediately thinks, "Oh, fuck, I've got to deal with Saul Goodman again. All the lawyers in Albuquerque and it just had to be Saul."
The fact that Badger manages to almost completely botch the stakeout arranged by Saul to catch the fake "Heisenberg" by talking to the wrong man, which forces Jesse and Walt to stage an intervention. Walt must thus use his car to block Hank's viewpoint and pretends to have been passing by, which serves to distract Hank, Gomez, and Getz while Jesse redirects Badger to the right guy.
Jesse: [walks past Badger, in a hushed whisper] Wrong guy, wrong guy, other bench.
Saul's commercial. Especially the obvious greenscreen.
Saul weaseling his way out of being shot over Badger's arrest offers us this one:
Saul: Okay, so if a prison shanking is completely off the table – and we're sure of that?
[Beat, Walter considering it while turning to Jesse]
Jesse: No shanking!
It's also funny to see Jesse have to talk some sense for a moment between two smarter people.
"4 Days Out"

Aaron Paul's perfect delivery of the line: "A robot?"
Walt and Jesse's exchange on what they would use to conduct the battery's electricity.
Walt: What element comes to mind? (waves wire) Hmm?
Jesse: Ohhhhhh.
[both go "ohhhh" for a bit]
Jesse: Wire!
[Beat, Walt's smile drops off his face]
Walt: No. Copper.
When Walt orders Jesse to buy supplies:
Jesse: Go shopping yourself. I got plans.
Walt: Smoking marijuana, eating Cheetos, and masturbating do not constitute plans in my book.
Walt on Jesse's junk food intake:
How are you even alive?
The mere fact that Jesse and Walt celebrate cooking 19 batches of pure meth...and not two minutes later are right back to screeching at each other when they realize they’re now stranded in the desert.
"Phoenix"

Walt's less-than-grateful reaction to the fundraising website his son set up, as the idea of taking charity hits him right in the rapidly-inflating ego.
Walt: Cyber-begging, that's all that is! Just rattling a little tin cup to the entire world.
Saul: Yeah, there's no deep-seated issues there...
One small moment (in an otherwise strenuous episode to watch) is when Walter comes by Jesse and Jane's place to hand off Jesse's $480,000 after getting blackmailed by Jane.
Walter: [looks at Jesse] Nice job being the pants in the relationship.
Walt's line doubles as a Call-Back to "The Cat's in the Bag", when Jesse chides him with the exact same line (i.e., after Walt lied to Skyler about Jesse giving him weed to cover up his and Jesse's illicit activities, Skyler goes to Jesse's house to leave his husband alone and stop dealing drugs).
After Walt leaves and Jesse and Jane are left to wonder what to do with the money, there's this little gem:
Jesse: Is New Zealand a part of Australia?
    Season 3 
"No Mas
The school holds a meeting so everyone can discuss their feelings regarding Wayfarer 515. Starts with the skeevy kid from the last season trying to get an automatic A for the year, moves on with the counselor telling a girl who asked why God would allow this kind of tragedy to "keep it secular," and finally ends with Walter giving a pathetic and unconsciously self-justifying monologue to the entire school in an effort to convince himself he's not at fault. This must be one of the most uncomfortable moments ever written.
The funny part is that the girl who questions why God would allow the tragedy to happen is being played by Bryan Cranston's real daughter Taylor Dearden Cranston. And Cranston also directed this episode.
"Caballo Sin Nombre"

The Cold Opening. Walt gets pulled over for driving with a cracked windshield. He tries to get out of a ticket by talking about the Wayfarer collision and how it damaged his property. Walt grows increasingly frustrated as the police officer asks him to calm down and sit in his car. Instead, Walt gets out and confronts the officer, claiming that "hellfire rained down on my house!" He gets in the officer's face, shouting... cut to a heavily pepper-sprayed Walt being placed in the officer's car.
"I've got your restraining order right here!" *grabs crotch* "Restrain this!"
Walt angrily throws the pizza on the roof. Also, the conversation before:
Skyler: We have discussed everything we need to discuss. I thought I made myself very clear.
Walt: ...I've got dipping sticks.
Skyler: [silently stares at Walt, shaking her head, before slamming the door in his face]
And later, Walt laying miserably on the floor in nothing but his underwear, covered in popcorn. Then accidentally hitting his head on the underside of the table when he moves to get up.
"Green Light"

After trying to talk Ted into letting him into his office, Walt begins dragging a potted plant towards his window when Skyler appears on the stairs and asks him what he's doing. Walt's reply is simply "I'm talking with Ted!" He then throws the plant at the glass, only for it to crack and fall to the ground without breaking it. Walt mutters dejectedly "Damn it." The security detail throws him out and, as he's looking to try and get in through the back door, Mike speeds by in his car, gets out, throws Walt in, gets in and speeds out in the space of about one second.
When Saul is trying to calm Walt down after his outburst, he ends up accidentally letting it slip that he had his house bugged. Then, in an attempt to get him to see the benefits of it, he ends up saying the worst possible thing you could say to a man who just found out his wife is cheating on him.
Saul: I mean on the one hand...sure, she uh... snuck off the reservation to get some dirty, damp and deep. On the other hand—
[Walt proceeds to grab Saul, scream in rage, pull him over the desk, and start to beat the ever-loving shit out of him]
Hank interrogates the gas station attendant who Jesse paid with meth instead of money. When she's asked what he looked like, she stops crying to overly describe how blue his eyes were — and is cut off by Hank's deadpan "He's dreamy." in a tone that blatantly says "Okay, I get it."
Victor giving Walt half of the money earned from Jesse's batch of meth... at a stop light.
Victor: [pulls up to Walt, tosses the bag of money through his window] Your half. [speeds off]
Mas"

The Binge Montage, where we find what Jesse and co. really did with that money that Jesse was going to use to buy an RV. It's just five minutes of Jesse, Badger, Combo and Skinny Pete having their pictures taken with strippers and finding elaborate ways to throw away their money at the local strip club.
Jesse: Hey, yo! Yo! You got champagne? None of that cheap shit, I want the expensive stuff! Dom Perig... Perignon.
Waitress: It's $400 a bottle.
Jesse: Oh. Well, in that case... I'll only have two.
Walter meeting with Gus to inform him he's not the gullible type that would get offended by Gus accepting Jesse's product instead of his own, when in fact that's exactly what Walt was feeling.
Gus: [with a completely straight face] I apologize for being so transparent.
"Sunset"

When Hank tries to break into Jesse's RV: Jesse gives us this gem:
Walt: [whispering] Say "This is my own private domicile and I will not be harassed."
Jesse: This is my own private domicile and I will not be harassed... [beat] bitch!''
The "really?" look Walt gives him afterward sells it.
"One Minute"

When Saul visits Jesse at the hospital, he attempts to cheer him up with some very poor-in taste jokes.
"I See You"

When Jesse is getting out of the hospital after being released following being beaten up by Hank. The orderly pushes his wheelchair to the curb and Jesse lights a cigarette.
Orderly: If you want to smoke you need to be another twenty feet from the door.
Jesse: So roll me further, bitch.
Walt telling Gale he doesn't want to work with him any more. The dialogue reads more like an awkward breakup than the end of a partnership.
Walter: It's as if I'm classical, and you are more... jazz.
This line only gets better when the decidedly hip-hop Jesse bursts in a moment later.
From the same scene: Gale trying to remain calm and dignified while Jesse shouts and gushes about the superlab in the background.
To quote Jesse (regarding the lab) "It's all shiny up in here".
Jesse asking Walt to pass along his best wishes when Hank has been shot days after viciously beating up Jesse.
Jesse: Yo, tell your douchebag brother-in-law to head towards the light!
Jesse's meth lab shenanigans. It ranges from pushing a swivel chair to filling his hazmat suit with air as he jumps around like a kid in a toy store.
"Kafkaesque"

Skyler offers to use Walt's drug money to pay Hank's medical bills. Since she can't explain the real source of the money, she starts spinning a fabricated story to Marie about Walt winning a bunch of money gambling. Walt leans in closer at the exact same time Marie does, just as desperate as her to hear where the "story" is going. When Skyler finishes the story you can see Walt nod his head and basically go "sure let's go with that" without even saying a word.
She also uses this as an opportunity to paint Walt in the worst light possible (saying how he got so "obsessed" with it and at one stage used their pension fund), knowing he can't correct or contradict her.
Jesse complains, "What's the good of being an outlaw if you've got responsibilities?" Which prompts Badger to point out "Darth Vader had responsibilities. He was responsible for the Death Star."
Jesse and co.'s selling meth at a support group through Bad "Bad Acting".
"Fly"

Jesse complaining that possums are called "opossums" now, saying that this only makes them sound Irish.
The fly, and all of the mayhem it causes.
Walter White. Swatting a fly. Like it's Serious Business.
Jesse arguing against the necessity of all this.
Jesse: Look, I like making cherry product, but let's keep it real, alright? We make poison for people who don't care.
Walt ends up with the fly on his head, and orders Jesse to take care of it. He hands him his flyswatter and asks that he does it on a count of 3. Jesse nails him in the head after Walt says 1. Afterwards, when Jesse insists that he killed the fly and even points to it on the floor, Walt crawls over and grabs it, then says...
Walt: This is a raisin.
Jesse then tries to argue that he got the fly anyway, only for the fly itself to show up again, completely unharmed.
Jesse: He's got some skills, yo. I'll give him that.
The image of Walt on his knees frantically searching for the fly was pretty amusing in and of itself.
The scenario in which Walt is balancing himself precariously off of the outer rail of the lab catwalk to hit the fly with a broom. It ends with Walt losing his grip and falling, landing stomach-first on a tank, and then dropping to the concrete floor.
And to add insult to injury, as he lies on the floor, recovering from the pain, the fly lands right on his glasses.
Jesse on Ebola. "It's a disease on the Discovery Channel where all your intestines sort of just slip right out of your butt."
When the fly is finally killed by Jesse, he turns to Walt, and we see him sleeping and snoring in his chair.
"Abiquiu"

Saul's reasoning of how he convinced a woman he was Kevin Costner: "And it worked, because I believed it!"
And if you watch "Marco" in Better Call Saul, you can enjoy the payoff: it was a one-night stand.
Walt banging his head on the counter as he races to stop Skyler from talking about their car wash plan on his answering machine. Fridge Brilliance: There was really no reason to worry, as the whole point of buying the car wash is so their income appears legitimate, and recorded discussions of it beforehand would actually help as long as the money laundering itself isn't mentioned.
"Half Measures"

"Everyone knows it's Windy!"
After Hank continues his Heroic BSoD after getting shot, Marie decides to cut him a deal:
Marie: I tell you what: if I can get the groundhog to see his shadow–
Hank: That’s not gonna happen. I’m sorry.
Marie: I’m betting it will. And if he does, you check out of here.
Hank: [laughs bitterly] I’m not gonna bet "when" on whether I can get a boner! There’s no bet, no bet here! No bet!
Marie: You afraid you’ll lose?
Hank: You know what? You’re just – you’re just being foolish, you know? Come on. What’s the point?
Marie: The point is you’re not completely hopeless. We have a bet?
Hank: You know what? If it’ll get you outta here quicker. You’ve got one minute.
Marie: One minute? Alright. That’s a cakewalk. [starts stroking Hank's junk]
Hank: Yeah. This is just, this is just sad... I mean, I really feel sorry for you, Marie, you know, I really do. It’s just, uh...it’s pathetic.
Marie: That’s good, keep talking. Protest. Struggle.
Hank: Marie, give up. I mean, seriously. It’s... not...gonna happen.
[Cuts to an annoyed Hank being wheeled out by an orderly, followed by Marie, who is smirking triumphantly]
"Full Measure"

Saul on laser tag. "You ever actually play laser tag? It's good cardio. Plus, you get to shoot at kids."
When Mike tells Chow to ask if the lady at the front desk, Peng, is still sitting there, she lets out a very long string of dialogue, shouted very loudly from the other room. Chow responds, "She says yes."
And her translated answer aptly sums up the situation.
Peng: Of course I'm still here! Where would I have gone? Hey, what are you two even doing? I have to go home, I've got kids to take care of, my husband is probably panicking. You don't pay me enough! Somebody died right in front of me!
Unsorted

Repeat this key phrase: "THAT'S NOT MY TIGER!"
Saul: Turns out the best defense is still a good offense. Where'd the tiger come from? The zoo! And you can bet we're gonna sue the bars off of them.note  What were you doing buying eighty pounds of raw meat every week? Ever hear the Atkins Diet? And I'll help you get that tiger's furry ass to Texas ASAP, because guess what: Tigers are still legal in Texas. YEEHAW! I have fun doing this job! Oh, and one thing: uh, you don't have to bring the tiger into my office. So if a tiger's got you by the tail (legally speaking), better call Saul!
We finally learn where Saul got his law degree: the totally legit-sounding University of American Samoa.
A "Funny Aneurysm" Moment after the events of Better Call Saul reveal it to probably be a diploma mill.
Saul offers legal services for Wayfarer 515 next of kin.
Saul: Were you or a loved one or an acquaintance hurt, killed, upset, or inconvenienced by the tragedy of Wayfarer 515? Better call Saul. We've all suffered a tragedy. A terrible disaster has befallen each and every one of us. A hundred sixty-seven men, women, and yes, innocent children were lost, on the day Wayfarer 515 fell from the sky. At times like this, we ask ourselves deep questions: Is there a God? How could He let this happen? Who did this to me? Who can I sue? Did falling debris or body parts strike you, your home, your car, or your place of business? Did you or a loved one lose income opportunity now or in a potential future? Have you experienced nausea, vertigo, insomnia, survivor's guilt, uncertainty, or simply confusion? Doctors are standing by to affirm your diagnosis. The tragedy is profound, the pain is profound, and believe me, the settlement will be profound. Better call Saul.
The "Doctors are standing by" line seems to imply that the doctors are in cahoots with Saul and will give the thumbs on whatever symptoms you're claiming rather than give you a legitimate evaluation.
As well as the fact that he words it in such a way as to imply that those who were personally killed in the disaster can sue (likely a nod to the terrible phrasing used in actual legal commercials, e.g. "Did you or a loved one die of asbestos poisoning?")
    Season 4 
"Box Cutter"
Skyler weaving a tapestry of BS to get a locksmith to let her into Walt's apartment, eventually even faking a panic attack.
While waiting for Gus, Victor starts a meth cook while Mike keeps Walt and Jesse seated. Walt, at first, takes some comfort in the fact that Victor doesn't seem to know what he's doing, forgetting to add aluminum to the cook. He is quite the Smug Snake about it...until Victor remembers the aluminum.
Walt: You forgot the aluminum, didn't you? You don't know the first steps in... [Victor adds the aluminum]...son of a bitch.
Jesse's exasperated "not again" face as he pulls out some acid to destroy Victor's body, and Mike's amusement at their attempts to get it into the container.
He also speaks his first words in the episode — "trust us" when Mike asks if it will work. And Jesse, of all people, KNOWS it will work.
"Thirty Eight Snub"

Badger and Skinny Pete's conversation about zombie games.
Jesse, Badger, and Skinny Pete discussing why the local pizza place doesn't cut their own pizza (mirroring discussions that arose when it was noticed that the roof pizza wasn't sliced).
Badger: [while Jesse gives him a bemused look] Gotta figure, you make, like, 10 million pizzas a year. Each pizza takes, like, 10 seconds to cut. In man hours, that's — [mouth starts billowing pot smoke, light wheezing] I don't know. A lot.
When the party at Caso Jessey finaly dies down, and the guests flock out, Jessey tried to talk Badger into staying, but the completely zoned out Matthew vaguely recalls that he probably has some... cat to feed or something...
When Walt is talking to Mike at the bar, trying to talk Mike into getting him close enough to Gus to kill him, there's this tiny exchange.
Walt: I appreciate that when you were going to kill me, you were simply following orders. I get that, completely. And I harbor no ill will.
Mike: Huh. There's a load off my mind.
"Open House"

When Walt finds out that Gus set up cameras in the lab, what does he decide to do? Walk up to one and flip it off.
"Bullet Points"

Hank: 'To W.W. My star, my perfect silence.' This W.W, who do you figure he is, eh? Woodrow Wilson? Willy Wonka? Walter White?
Walter:[raises his hand mockingly]'' You got me.
For additional Black Comedy [or genuinely funny] points, this is exactly how Hank figures that Walter is Heisenberg, in "Gliding Over All".
Gale's "Major Tom" music video. Kind of a Tear Jerker, too, since it's shown after his death.
Plus, his notes include not only meth formulas, but vegan s'more recipes, lists of the best recumbent bikes, indoor composting tips, a Ron Paul sticker, and a Far Side cartoon.
This rant from Walt to Saul is just hilarious:
Then what else should I not worry about, Saul, hm? Should I not worry that Gus plans to murder me at the first chance he gets? Should I not worry that my drug-addicted partner doesn't seem to care whether he lives or dies? You should see his house. It's like skid row! He has actual hobos living there! Now how long before Gus decides that he's too big of a risk? That guy Mike, that grunting dead-eyed cretin, sucker-punching me in the face! I've got Gus wielding a box cutter! I mean...Western Union! Message received! Let me ask you, when did this stop being a business, hm? Why am I the only person capable of behaving in a professional manner?
Walt and Skyler rehearsing the gambling story. Doubles as a Tear Jerker at times, since it shows how much in denial Walt is about his life of crime and how much of a divide there is between them at this point.
Skylar actually making a script of a cover story for her and Walt being able to pay for Hank's medical expenses. Then she forces Walt to rehearse the lines with her and he makes the entire thing as difficult as possible.
"Shotgun"

The scene when Walt Jr. comes home just as Walt and Skyler finished having sex. He doesn't see anything, but he puts two and two together (based on Walt and Skyler being in the bedroom) and makes the world's funniest disgusted face ever in the history of TV.
Anything involving Jesse's Roomba and people's reactions to it.
Did that just happen?
The beginning of the episode becomes this after a while. The episode begins with a Moment of Awesome for Walt, with him driving like a madman to save Jesse, who he presumes is en route to his own execution. Then, he walks into Los Pollos Hermanos and demands from the manager to see Gustavo Fring, immediately. After a while, it turns out his badassitude was barely acknowledged by anyone in the legitimate fast-food business and then Mike and Jesse phone him, asking an out-of-his-mind Walter what the hell he's doing in the most bored way possible.
Well, Jesse might be bored, but at that point, he seems more resigned than anything. It's not that he doesn't think Mike is going to kill him — after all, he doesn't act too surprised when Walt asks if Mike is holding him at gunpoint. It's that he doesn't care.
There's this joke: how do you get meth-heads out their house? Start digging: you'll know why. (Watching Mike's reactions is pretty golden, too.)
The montage of Jesse bored out of his mind while making pickups with Mike.
So, I figured out your brilliant plan to get rid of me. You're going to bore me to death.
Jesse's and Mike's Mathematicians Answers to Walt when he calls Mike to find out what's going on:
Walt: Where is Jesse?
Mike: He's with me.
Walt: [sigh] Put Jesse on!
Jesse: Yo.
Walt: Where are you?
Jesse: I'm with Mike.
"Cornered"

"TUCKER! TUCKER! WILL YOU SHUT THE DAMN DOOR? TUCKER!!" Smackheads can be funny, sometimes.
"Problem Dog"

Walter calls for a cab after he sets a delayed explosion to destroy the car he was driving. Right after the car explodes, he says, in a bored voice no less, "No, I think he'll see me."
"Hermanos"

The sequence where Hank tasks Walt with putting a tracker on Gus' stationwagon.
As Hank is pressing Walt to take the tracker and plant it, Walt is scared shitless and not listening to Hank because he sees Mike sitting in his car right next to them, with the best "I got eyes on you, Walter." Even better, before this you can clearly see Mike parking right next to them.
When Walt goes in to order, he has an awkward exchange with Gus. You got to feel for Walt, the way he's been trying to get into the same room with Gus so that he can kill him, and now that he's right there, inches away from his face, Gus knows full well Walt can't do jack shit, and he knows Walt knows that. So he just smiles and directs him to put the tracker on his car anyways to deter suspicions.
He also completely forgets that Hank asked for a soda.
"Bug"

Skyler's Obfuscating Stupidity to keep Ted out of prison, acting like a Dumb Blonde who was only in charge of finances because she slept with Ted.
Tyrus Kitt has Walt shipped into the meth lab in dirty laundry. Walt emerges from the sheets covered in dust.
Walter White: [annoyed] Does the laundry have to be dirty?
Tyrus Kitt: [beat] Nope.
The strippers running off with silverware and goods after the cartel bosses keel over in "Salud".
"Crawl Space"

Huell and Kuby are sent to Ted's house to strong-arm him into writing a check to the IRS. This is what happens when they knock at the door:
Ted: Can I help you?
Patrick: Yeah. Thanks! [he and Huell step in uninvited]
Ted: Whoa, whoa, you can't just—! [Huell and Kuby stop and deliver their best death stares] What's this about?
Patrick: I'll tell you what this is about, Mr. Beneke. This is about you and me doing our best to keep Huell happy.
Ted: Huell? Who's Huell?
Patrick: [points] This is Huell. Huell, you happy?
Huell: Reasonably.
Patrick: What would make you unhappy?
Huell: This lil' motherfucker not doing what he's told.
Patrick: And if you were to become unhappy, Mr. Beneke wouldn't care for that?
Huell: I'm gonna say "no".
Patrick: Well there you have it! Let's go find your checkbook. [begins leading Ted to the living room] Ready? Here we go, all right? We're walking, swinging our feet, there you go, very nice. Beautiful place you have here....
And later in the scene the show reaches the peak of its Black Comedy. Ted abruptly tries to bail and winds up tripping over his rug and sliding, with the floor audibly squeaking, head-first into his kitchen cabinet, breaking his neck and knocking oranges out of the basket on the cabinet and dropping them onto him. If you listen closely you can even hear the Sickening "Crunch!" once he crashes into the cabinet.
"Face Off"

When the bomb that kills Gustavo goes off, you can see Tyrus's body plop off the ceiling.
The face that Hector makes◊ right before he sets off the bomb is a hilarious mixture of anger and excitement. Considering all the stuff Gus did to interfere in Hector's hospital treatment as revealed in Better Call Saul, it's quite fitting that it's the last thing that Gus sees.
Hector struggling to get his nurse to understand that he wants to talk to the DEA ("Honey, 'Dea' ain't a word!").
One commenter noted the logical extreme that this exchange must've gone to:
Commenter: Ten hours later..."Sorry Mr Salamanca, I have no idea who CALL DRU GADMI NISTRA TIONA GENCY YOUST UP IDBIT CH is"
Then, using his laborious communication method to simply deliver crude profane insults ("S-U-C-K M-Y—[D-I-C-K]"; "F-U-C—[K-Y-O-U]").
Hank Schrader: Well, at least he didn't shit himself.
Take a good, long look at Hector as his nurse brings him back into the elevator; did Hector just wink at Hank?
When the nurse returns Hector to his room at the nursing home, she chides him in the same way that a parent might scold a small child for breaking something valuable.
While hiding from Tyrus' search of Hector's room, Walt's cover is almost blown by an old lady constantly saying hello to and laughing at the funny man standing right outside her window.
Walt's magnetized bomb sticking to an elevator door, followed by Jesse saying, "Did you just bring a bomb into a hospital?!"
Walt doesn't get it in his head that a demand from Francesca for $20,000 (later $25,000) to fix a broken glass door is a demand for a bribe.
He eventually gets it. That's when she ups it to $25K.
Upon this realization, Walt gets up close to Francesca's face — seemingly about to launch a verbal attack — only to mutter "I'll be right back" and hurriedly stumble through the broken door. Even funnier is that he crawls out through the hole he just made instead of just opening the door now that he's inside
Before the blackmail, Francesca gives Walt a major tongue-lashing calling him insane for breaking into the office. When Walt goes off saying he needs Saul, she cuts him off saying "Let me guess, you and your partner did something stupid again."
Saul's commercial for obese people:
Saul: Are you or someone you loved [graphics cause his chest to inflate] fifty, a hundred, or even two hundred pounds overweight?note  Then you better call Saul! Have fast-food restaurants tricked you into an unhealthy lifestyle with their ads [graphic of Los Pollos Hermanos logo], their Dollar Menus [graphic of dollar signs], and their colorful banners [Mexico flag]?

I'm Saul Goodman, and I have the highest dollar-per-pound recovery ratio in Bernalillo Countynote . Any trainer will tell you there's four ways to lose weight: diet, exercise, the Lap-Band® note , and a fat legal suit. Just listen to this guy.
[Cuts to a photo of a man in farmer's overalls standing outside a Los Pollos Hermanos restaurant]
Client: This is me before I called Saul. I was 300 pounds, I'd lost my job, and I was impotent.note 
[The image flips to show the actual customer, in the same location, who hasn't changed weight at all and is now holding bags with dollar signs on them in each hand]
Client: This is me after the Saul Goodman plan. Thanks, Saul!note 
Saul: So put down the muffins and pick up the phone! Just remember to take the fries out of your mouth before you call so we can understand what you're saying.note  You don't have to swallow injustice anymore. Call me, Saul Goodman, today!
    Season 5 
"Buyout"
Jesse's hideously awkward attempts at small talk over dinner with Walt and Skyler. "Whatever happened to truth in advertising?"
Made even more hilarious when he drank from his glass of water for a solid 30 seconds when Skyler mentioned the affair with Ted.
"Hey Mrs. White. Vamonos."
"It's the universal symbol for keys."
If we're going to quote Mike, we might as well mention some of his other funny gems:
Joe: Oh, credit cards! You want that plastic working come Miller Time.
Mike: Y'know, I can foresee a lot of possible outcomes to this thing, and not a single one of them involves Miller Time.
Joe: PMA. Positive Mental Attitude.
Mike instructing Lydia about how he'll kill her if she botches a DEA phone call and explaining to her the difference between "pistol" and "gun".
Mike explaining why he wouldn't lead the cops to their headquarters, like he's talking to a five year old.
Mike strikes again, telling Walt they're gonna spend the whole night in the office, "like it's my birthday."
"Live Free or Die"

Mike in the very first scene has him feeding some bullying chickens and calmly but seriously saying "Wendell doesn't eat, nobody eats."
Mike is about to get out of dodge.
Well... You know how they say "it's been a pleasure"? [beat] It hasn't.
Walter settles a debate with Mike over the outcome of the magnets ploy with a "Because I say so."
Mike even cracks Walt and Jesse up when he's going over instructions with the Vamonos Pest Control crew and he tells them to refer to Walt as "Yes sir" and Jesse as "No sir".
Mike watching TV while the cops search his house.
"Buyout"

Mike's most classic line to Walt:
Mike: You know, I have never seen anybody work so hard not to get $5 million.
Mike using one of his granddaughter's toys to distract Chris Mara.
Fun fact: that's an actual toy too, known as Bacon the Pig. After its appearance in the show, some fans even made in-character Amazon reviews as if Mike is praising the product for its use as a distraction tactic rather than its worthiness as a toy:
My granddaughter loves this pig. On a side note, I found the tail can be hung on a door and the pig will make a faint knocking sound. It's a fun way to sneak up on and surprise old friends.
My granddaughter Kaylee loves this toy. As a bonus its long tail is perfect for hanging over the front door as a decoy when I'm working in my restaurant security job. Who is the one who knocks? This little pig is the one! Count me as one happy customer in ABQ!
Lydia's introductory scene, with her pitiful attempts at cloak-and-dagger antics while meeting with Mike.
Hell, whenever she tries to act inconspicuous.
Walter shrugs off Saul's comments about Mike:
Saul: So you bring him here? Come on! The three of us? We're the Three Amigos! All for one, one for all! We don't need a Fourth Amigo!
Walter: Saul, Mike knows the business. He knows distributors.
Jesse: Mike's okay.
Saul: He's okay? He said he was going to break my legs. And don't tell me he didn't mean it, okay? 'Cause he gave me the dead mackerel eyes. He meant it.
Walt: Saul, Mike threatened me. He threatened Jesse. He probably threatened someone before breakfast this morning. It's what he does. Come on. Grow a pair!
Walt and Walt Jr. buying cars.
To elaborate: Walt goes out and buys a Chrysler 300 SRT8 for Jr. Jr. looks impressed, but gestures that Walt can do better...so Walt keeps the Chrysler for himself and buys Jr. a Dodge Challenger SRT8. Yucks and laughs were had by all as father and son enjoy their new toys and rev up their engines.
A big part of it is Rian Johnson's absurdly over-the-top direction, repeatedly panning back and forth between them long after we've gotten the point, all to illustrate their adolescent mindset over the whole thing.
And the whole scene has the most hilariously obnoxious use of dubstep since Saints Row: The Third.
Walt secretly plants a bug in Hank's office, under the guise of needing to weepily unload to Hank about his failing marriage. He has to go retrieve the bug from the office in "Say My Name," so he tearfully unloads on Hank again. Hank eventually steps out of the office and mimes shooting himself in the head to his coworkers.
Saul, when showing Walt, Jesse, and Mike different places where they can cook, drives up to a location that's met with a big "no" from both Walt and Jesse. Cut to a shot showing what the place is: Lazer Base, the laser tag joint last seen in Season 3.
Of course, the other choices weren't exactly as optimal either: the other options were a cardboard factory (where Walt's concern was that humidity would ruin the quality of the meth, not to mention the noise) and a tortilla factory (with the concern of "It'll make the tortillas smell like cat piss", not to mention the risk of being discovered during surprise health inspections).
Jesse swiping a still-hot tortilla right off of the conveyor belt as they leave.
Jesse attempting to get Walt and Mike's attention for his magnet idea, followed by his mimed explanation of it.
And then Walt goes a little overboard making sure they fry the laptop, turning up the magnet's power until the van is knocked over.
Old Joe musing about genital piercings.
Skinny Pete plays C. P. E. Bach's "Solfeggietto" on a keyboard...and then Badger comes in with tuneless caterwauling on a two neck guitar.
What sells the moment is Pete's exasperated body language when Badger is playing. Then he looks up, rock-on face, and Pete fakes enthusiasm.
The look on Hank's face at the end of "Gliding Over All". He looks like he just shit himself.
"YEAH, BITCH! MAGNETS! OH!"
Jesse referring to the old RV they used to cook meth inside as the "Crystal Ship."
Gomez's face when he catches the lawyer paying off Mike's guys in the bank vault.
Dan Waschberger: ...Hey.
Steven Gomez: [wearing shit-eating grin] Hey.
Saul's reaction to Mike's other lawyer: "How could Mike use that clown of a lawyer? He would've had better luck with the law firm of Mo, Larry, and Shemp."
"Blood Money"

Badger's Star Trek script. With "script" being a massive stretch of the word. It does somewhat foreshadow how the whole final showdown between Walt, Jack and Lydia will go, but, in the meanwhile:
To elaborate: on a quiet day, the crew of the Enterprise holds a pie-eating contest that ultimately boils down to Kirk, Spock, and Chekov. Kirk is the first to lose, having "yorked" (puked). Meanwhile, however, Chekov has Scotty use the transporter to beam the pies he eats into space (since he has a lot of quatloos riding on this). However, near the end, Scotty screws up (due to being distracted when Uhura walks in with "her big pointies"), resulting in Scotty transporting Chekov's guts into space, killing him.
There's even a mistake that will make Trekkies squirm, when Skinny Pete describes Voyager as being in the Gamma Quadrant. (Amusingly, he was half-right. Tulaberries ARE from the Gamma Quadrant... but Voyager isn't.)
Another small one is describing the original series as having replicators. It's unclear if this mistake was intentional or not. However, considering this is Badger we're talking about, the probability that it was intentional are like he probably was when he was creating said "script": high.
Here's the animated version, which has an additional moment of funny in the form of Spock not giving a shit about the fact that Chekov has died.
Walt is unimpressed with Saul's suggestion in re: Hank: "Send him to Belize...I'll send you to Belize."
Meta: Someone kind of misinterpreted this suggestion...
Huell, to quote Kuby, "Channeling Scrooge McDuck" by using Walter's money as a bed.
When Huell refuses to get up from it despite Kuby's urges, Kuby finally just shrugs and joins him.
Huell: Mexico. All's I'm sayin'.
Kuby: Guy hit 10 guys in jail within a two-minute window, all's I'm sayin'.
Todd steering Lydia through a maze of bodies, as her high heels sink into the sand.
Saul giving Jesse a Hello Kitty cell phone.
Jesse: Seriously? Hello Kitty?
Saul: Seriously? It's free.
The unbearably tense meeting between Walt, Skyler, Hank, and Marie being occasionally broken up by an obnoxiously cheerful waiter.
"Tableside guacamole?"
Made even funnier by several comments on the Breaking Bad Facebook page reading "I am the one who guacs!!!!!"
When Walt, Jesse, and Saul have a secret meeting in the desert, it takes all of one sentence from Walt's mouth to make Saul go from ranting at Jesse a mile-a-minute to sitting quietly in the background, like a child being sent to the corner, for the rest of the scene.
Walt retrieving his gun from the car wash. He zooms into a parking space and races for the door, then abruptly stops and enters completely calm. Followed by giving Skyler the most half-assed excuses imaginable for why he's there, and why he then has to leave. It's quite satisfying seeing the once-invincible Magnificent Bastard reduced to this.
Hank's method of testing a wire signal: "Pancho Villa, Salma Hayek. Pancho Villa, Salma Hayek. You gettin' that?" Gomie's response: "Loud and clear, idiota."
Walter Jr. coming up with a better lie than Walt to explain the house being covered in gasoline, completely by accident. And Walt's planet-sized pride still won't let him drop his own idea.
Walt referring to Badger and Skinny Pete as "Beaver and... what's his name".
Kuby: For three hours straight all he (Badger) talked about was something called Babylon 5.
Jesse all but confirming what part of the fandom already thinks:
Jesse: Yeah, no, Mr. White's gay for me. Everyone knows that.
Extremely dark humor, but: Marie's conversation with her therapist about untraceable poisons. Especially once you take into account the fact that the person she is fantasizing about poisoning is Walt, AKA probably the best person to ask about untraceable poisons.
Walt walking into the carwash with Holly to find Saul Goodman chatting with his wife and son, and immediately turning back around and leaving. Adding to that, Junior was starstruck by Saul Goodman when he enters the car wash.
"Hey, kid: don't drive drunk. But if you do, call me!" It's the way he sounds like he's gleefully anticipating it that sells the joke.
To add to the funny, after being recognized by Walt Jr., the director frames nearly every shot with Walt Sr. and Saul outside to catch either his bus ad or billboard in the background.
Todd using "Blinded Me with Science" as his ringtone.
Specifically his ringtone for Walt, since "Felina" shows that he uses a different one for Lydia — Groucho Marx's "Lydia the Tattooed Lady".
Gomez calling Jesse "Timmy Dipshit."
"To'hajiilee"

Todd's shooting face during the shootout at the end. It's just so... well, look◊.
"Ozymandias"

After Jack's just killed Hank and Gomez, taken Jesse into captivity, and left Walt with a barrel of money, Walt rolls the barrel along the desert, while this mellow – and incredibly apt for the episode, if you interpret it as saying Walt's "true love" is his money – song is playing.
Times are getting' hard, boy; money's gettin' scarce
Times gonna get no better, boys; gonna leave this place
Take my true love by the hand; lead her through the town
Say goodbye to everyone, goodbye to everyone.
Had a job a year ago, had a little home
Now I've got no place to go, guess I'll have to roam.
Even in the intense midst and despite his complicity in Hank's death, Todd finds time to give Walt a seemingly genuine yet incredibly inappropriate "Sorry for your loss."
As Walt rolls his barrel of money through the desert, he rolls past a pair of pants. Word of God confirms these are, in fact, the same pants he lost in the pilot. It's a Brick Joke that took practically five and a half years to pay off.
"Granite State"

Walt's only DVD choices in his isolated New Hampshire cabin are two copies of Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium. Truly a level of Hell that Dante never imagined.
Saul's surprise that his "Disappearer" actually does sell vacuum cleaners.
Seeing Jack and the other Neo-Nazis make fun of Todd for having a crush on Lydia!
This little conversation:
Walter: I'd like to speak to the man in charge of the Walter White case.
Operator: Who is this?
Walter: Walter White.
After the very draining end of the previous episode, the first we see of Walt is a silent video feed of him pacing around, griping to himself, and angrily slapping a ceiling lamp. Yup, seems just about right.
When Ed walks in on Walt attempting to browbeat Saul into continuing to work with him:
Ed: Everything good?
Saul: [without any air in his throat] Define "good."
How Ed was talking about preparing Walter's IV injection: by watching a couple of YouTube videos.
"Felina"

Todd's choice of "Lydia the Tattooed Lady" as a ringtone.
Walt triumphantly getting the car to work after finding the keys with "El Paso" playing. Mundane Made Awesome.
Extremely dark example, but once you learn that the "hitmen" arranged for Gretchen and Elliott are Skinny Pete and Badger using laser pointers, the scene at the Schwartz house. You can tell Walt is enjoying himself a little bit too much.
When Badger and Skinny Pete question as to whether or not what they did was morally right, Walt gives them both a wad of cash and they promptly shut up.
Walt suddenly walking into the background as Todd and Lydia have breakfast, neither of them noticing until he pulls up a chair.
Jack's reaction to seeing Walt with hair. First he refuses to believe it's not a wig, then he compliments it.
Jack: Christ, that is one fine head of hair. I mean, otherwise you look like shit, but-
Walt: Hello to you too, Jack.
Jack's reaction to Kenny asking where he wants Walt to be killed: "Yeah, thanks. Anywhere but my living room would be fine. Jesus." Funny considering that this living room is going to be littered with corpses in a few minutes.
Another gem from Jack, albeit a dark example; his over-the-top sarcasm at the accusation that Jesse is his "partner":
Jack: Does this look like a partner to you? Take a look at him. Have a gander. He's my partner. Right, partner? Right, buddy? Hard working good partner! Fifty-fifty partner!
Black Comedy: Kenny lying dead in the massage chair as it's still operating.
Lydia has an actual screaming pillow on standby in her office.
    Other 
The alternate joke ending: Hal and Lois experiencing a Newhart scenario.
Hal trying to describe Jesse.
YO, B-WORD! YAY, SCIENCE, B-WORD!
Hal excusing his erection against Lois's back as the one who knocks.
"The only thing that made sense in the dream is that I still walked around in my underwear!"
When talking about Hank, he mentions that "he looked like the guy from The Shield."
After telling Lois goodnight ("Goodnight, Skyler"), we see the porkpie hat and out of nowhere you hear "life is unfair~~~" from the Malcolm in the Middle theme.
The season 2 gag reel, which includes Anna Gunn in her fake pregnancy gear, playing with a fake hand and pretending she's being fondled.
Anna Gunn: Oh, Tuco!
Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul repeatedly flubbing their lines, ending up with the both of them unable to keep a straight face.
Aaron Paul: [as Jesse] I don't know, Mr. White, do you think that this will wearly wlork? [Bryan Cranston bursts out laughing] I can't say that right: "this will really work". I can't say it. I can't do it!
Aaron Paul: [trying an alternate version of the line, while his partner tries to stop laughing] Do you think this is gonna work, do you think this is gonna work. "I don't know, Mr. White, do you think this will work?" Does that work? [more laughter from Bryan and the crew]
[several failed takes later, as they're unable to even look at each other without cracking up]
Bryan Cranston: [still grinning like a loon] I'm anticipating it not working...
Aaron Paul: [trying to get a grip] It's gonna work!

[in another different scene]
Bryan Cranston: [as Walt] Now, who messes with the blowfish, Jeff- [collapses in hysterics on top of Aaron, breaking character completely] You're not Jeff. Who's Jeff?
Cranston joking how a camera will focus on him in a shot with Aaron Paul because he's the one with the Emmy. Funny as is, even funnier when you remember that the latter has scored three Emmys thanks to Breaking Bad.
Remember the aforementioned "dipping sticks" line when Skyler shuts the door in the face of Walt and his pizza? In an alternate take, she briefly reopens it to swipe the bag of dipping sticks.
In the same blooper reel, an argument at the Whites' breakfast table gets derailed by Bryan Cranston and Anna Gunn starting a food fight, with RJ Mitte in the middle trying to get them to stop.
Bryan Cranston mispronouncing the word 'decontaminate' and switching to what appears to be an attempt at Japanese, all while pulling a couple of items out of the shopping bags in front of him and with Aaron Paul staying in character anyway.
Aaron: (in character) What are you even trying to say?
Highlights from the season 4 blooper reel.
Walt inserts Bogdan's first dollar into a vending machine...only for it to slide right back out. Walt catches the bill before it hits the ground, tries again, and the same thing happens.
Walt: [seething] Bogdan...
In the scene where Mike tells Walt that he'll never see Gus again before leaving the lab, instead of watching Mike's exit in silence, Bryan Cranston gets a bit creative and tells him how he's going to get a gun and shoot Gus, concluding by yelling "DO YOU HEAR ME?", which prompts Jonathan Banks to reopen the door he just went through and yell back "I DO!"
The opening blooper, which is one for the "one who knocks" scene. Anna Gunn says her lines, Cranston turns, says nothing for a few seconds, and then breaks down laughing.
"[Cranston adjusting his underwear] I know I'm a piece of meat, but it's okay."
Even Giancarlo Esposito gets in on the fun:
Esposito: [speaking to Hector/Mark Margolis] Is today the day? [pause] I guess today's the day! [Both start laughing]
The pizza that Walt tossed onto the roof of his house in "Caballo Sin Nombre" is affectionately referred to as the "pizza of destiny". In preparation for the scene, the production crew for the show ordered dozens of pizzas, in case re-shoots were necessary. Cranston managed to nail the shot in one take, leaving them with a bunch of un-thrown pizzas. That day, the cast and crew feasted like kings.
Jesse meets Anna.
Meth: The Freshmaker.
A funny behind-the-scenes story from the standoff that led to Hank's and Gomez's deaths: during one take of the part where Jack asks how do they know that they (Hank and Gomez) are actually cops, Steven Michael Quezada (Gomez) broke character and said "Because Dean Norris plays a cop in everything he's fucking in!"
How the show almost could have had a Nick Fury cameo.
Late Night with Jimmy Fallon celebrates the end of the series... with a supercut set to *NSYNC's "Bye Bye Bye".
Late Night with Jimmy Fallon did a different parody, "Joking Bad", with Fallon as a joke dealer. It features references to many of the show's best moments note  a lengthy cameo from Odenkirk himself as Saul, Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul in the audience (the latter booing Fallon) when Fallon inadvertently sells all his jokes to Gus leaving him with no material for the show, and in that same scene Bryan Cranston throwing a pizza, imitating the iconic scene from the show.
Jimmy Kimmel helps Bryan Cranston celebrate his "super sweet 60", and it's just 15 minutes of pure hilarity, considering Bryan perfectly acts like a bratty 16-year-old. At one point, Bryan is shown eating "Gustav-O's" cereal, a Totally Radical Odenkirk helps him pick out an outfit, and when Bryan sees someone wearing the same outfit as him, it turns out to be Aaron Paul.
Just imagine Heisenberg saying the line "Shut up, mom." with dead seriousness.
Walter White shows up in a 2016 episode of Saturday Night Live as Donald Trump's pick for the head of the DEA.
The parodies Breakbad Mountain and Breaking Bad as a Romantic Comedy, which both reimagine the show as, well, a gay romance between Walt and Jesse. The latter video even depicts Walt somehow impregnating Jesse.
Here's "Breaking Bad as a Sitcom", in all it's glory.
Walter White's Real Confession, which is spliced together with a very weird clip of Bryan Cranston as Hal from Malcolm in the Middle.
Similar: "Walt gives Hank the Wrong CD", which shows a scene from the episode "Rollerskates" with Malcolm's reactions replaced with Hank and Marie's.
Marie: Who do you think he showed this to?
Hank: No one.
Or "Walter tries to blackmail Hank", where Walt's confession is replaced by a weird Tim & Eric commercial starring Dean Norris.
To mark the tenth anniversary, Aaron announces a contest in which the winner will get a chance to cook breakfast in the RV with him for charity... only to find Bryan squatting in the RV. Hilarity ensues.
"Breaking Good episode 1" and its sequel. It's a parody of much of the series and character relationships using sloppily-written posts and a single voice actor that cannot stop laughing.

Heartwarming / Breaking Bad
 Season 1 
Skyler and Walt's faces when the nurse informs them that their unborn child is a girl.
When Jesse's little brother Jake's joint is found in his room, Jesse takes the blame for it and allows himself to get kicked out of the house. He even stomps out the joint, saying that it was "skunk weed".
Marie is the only one during the "talking pillow" debate that decides to side with Walt by telling him that he should do what he wants and agreeing with the sentiment that spending time in chemo is not exactly the best way to go. This quickly derails into an argument, but it's a first sign that Marie is more than just the obnoxious sister.
Hugo, the janitor at the high school where Walt works, cleans up the chemo-induced vomit and offers Walt a stick of gum for his breath. The guy's so soft-spoken and genuine…
Hugo: I'll take care of it, Mr. White. You've got students to teach.
Walt Jr.'s reaction to a bald Walt also counts. Skyler is shocked and dumbstruck, the kid calls him a badass. Everyone would show Tuco after such positive reinforcement at breakfast.
Particularly poignant as Walt Jr. called him "a pussy" earlier for his indecision regarding going to chemotherapy — Walt makes the point of shaving his head himself.
And those are genuine reactions from RJ Mitte and Anna Gunn, as that was the first time they'd seen Bryan Cranston once he'd shaved his head.
Walt showing for the first time he cares about Jesse when he storms Tuco's place to demand the money he owes them AND 15 grand for Jesse. And he doesn't drop his cool for a single moment.
Another little one is the look on Jesse's face when Walt gets back and he asks him what happened. You can tell that he's trying hard not to look too pleased at the idea that Walt was "out for blood" after hearing that someone had hurt him, but that he's actually quite touched.
Walter's particularly embarrassed at a party for his old friend and colleague Elliot, especially over the tiny gift he brought in comparison to the over the top nature of all of the other presents. When Elliot opens the gift, he finds a pack of ramen. Elliot loves the gift because it was the same brand he and Walter lived off on in their days working together, and the two are seen next chatting and laughing about the good old days. Walter's discomfort is gone completely.
Walter and Krazy-8's interactions in the first few episodes. They actually seem like genuine friends for a moment, which makes it even more heartbreaking when Walt finds out Krazy-8 is just using him to escape and plans to stab him with the broken plate piece.
As hamfisted and awkward as his mix sports/poker metaphors are, Hank's speech during the family intervention has shades of this and is one of the earlier signs there is more to him than just the Meathead Cop persona he projects in the first few episodes.
A twisted heartwarming occurs in the finale. When Tuco begins beating No-Doze, Walt unhesitatingly moves to try and break up the fight. No-Doze might have been an ass to Walt and Jesse previously, but even Walt can recognize Tuco is overreacting. Similarly, Gonzo blocks Walt and Jesse to keep Tuco from turning his wrath on them.
    Season 2 
Hank comforting Skyler, after her heated vent about Marie's troublemaking and other issues.
Despite having a blowup minutes earlier, Walt offers Jesse breakfast in his own house in "Down". (And, one hopes, a shower.)
Jesse's last line in "Peekaboo": "You have a good rest of your life, kid."
In all honesty, "Peekaboo" could serve as one for Jesse in its entirety. This episode basically showed the audience that even though Jesse is a wannabe gang-banger and drug dealer, he's got a heart far too big to be in such a nasty business. Especially when it comes to kids.
Apology Girl.
Most of Jane and Jesse's moments in "Over", really. From the surprise breakfast he makes her (she has to discretely pick out a shell) to Jane going over the superhero sketches he drew as a kid ("Kanga-Man" and "Backwardo"), he's full on adorkable in this episode and she clearly adores him for it.
The initiating moment of their courtship in "Negro y Azul" is also touching. They sit watching a TV that hasn't even been properly hooked up yet, so they just sit in silence. Then, slowly, they hold hands.
Walt protecting Jesse from Tuco in "Grilled".
Upon hearing that Hank has had a nervous breakdown as a result of the Tortuga bomb, Walt rushes over and manages to coax him into returning to work.
Despite having just been scared shitless by Jesse and Walt trying to scare him to represent Badger (while not making a deal with the DEA), the second Saul recognizes Walt by his cough, he advises him to take off his hockey mask so he can breath better.
At the end of "4 Days Out", Jesse reassures Walt that if anything happens, Jesse will give Walt's family their due money. Jesse's expression indicates that he figured out why Walt wanted to speed up the cooking production.
Also Walt and Jesse high-fiving once they realise they've just cooked enough meth in 2 days to make them $672,000 each.
The reactions of Walt's family when they learn the enlightening news of Walt's health.
The way Walter treats Jesse in the final episodes of the season. Even though Walter can be a total Jerkass to Jess at times and rarely shows signs of truly caring for him as a person, those episodes show that he actually does care a lot for his partner.
Similarly, Jesse's genuine happiness when during "Over" when Walt tells him that he's gone into remission. The two might have a fairly rocky relationship, but there is a mutual respect and care between them.
Gus donating some money to Walt's lung cancer fundraiser. It's sort of a warped example, considering that he may have done it for the sake of good publicity, or to help keep him in the drug trade, but it can also show how much he respects Walt outside of work.
Hell, the reveal of the fundraiser site itself. Walter Jr. has made a page full of pictures, gushing about a father he obviously adores. It visibly warms Walt's heart too (that is, until he sees the donate button), and even after that, he tells his son, with a smile and a hug, that he is really appreciative of the efforts.
Walter and Holly. Any scene.
    Season 3 
Hank crying on Marie's shoulder in the elevator after having a very long and bad day in "One Minute".
In the previous two episodes, Hank goes to track Heisenberg and finds Walt and Jesse's RV with them inside, but gets a phone call telling him Marie is in the hospital. After realizing it was a trick, he goes to Jesse's house and beats him unconscious. After being suspended from the DEA and told he he's facing serious charges, he finally sees Marie. And of course, it gets even worse because he gets shot by Leonel and Marco shortly thereafter.
While the opening scene depicting Hector Salamanca's near-drowning of Marco is anything but heartwarming, it's hard not to feel a little fuzzy inside when Leonel leaps to his brother's aid. Despite having fought to the point of tears only seconds beforehand, the brothers' love for each other is real enough for Leonel to punch his uncle Hector, a feared crime boss, in the face just to protect Marco. Even Evil Has Loved Ones, after all, and there's something sweet about seeing these two cold-blooded killers as children doing whatever it takes to protect each other.
"I See You":
Walt comforting Marie in the hospital. She wonders aloud how "anyone could survive this deathtrap," to which Walt ultimately responds, "I survived this place. And I'm not half the man your husband is."
It's only a brief scene, but the line of cops showing up to donate blood while Hank's in surgery. Can double as a Tearjerker for anyone who has family in law enforcement.
"Kafkaesque":
When Skyler "reveals" the gambling tale to Marie, Skyler especially emphasizes that Walt only wanted to save his family from financial troubles when he's deceased, indicating that in spite of Skyler's understandable reservations about having a meth-cooking husband, she has come to see Walt's good intentions for his cooking.
Skyler, knowing Marie's desperation in getting Hank readjusted and treated, decides that Walt's illegal money should be used to pay Hank's hospital bill, knowing that Hank was wrongly and indirectly affected by Walt's crimes.
At the end of "Fly", Jesse takes Walt, who has fallen asleep in his chair, and lies him down on a sofa, putting a blanket over him.
"Abiquiu": Jesse refusing to sell the blue meth to his new girlfriend after finding out that she has a son and calling her out when she asks him to get her some of it.
"Half Measures":
After Jesse yells at Walt for ratting him out to Gus about his plan to kill the dealers that had Combo killed, not knowing they work for Gus, Gus takes a moment to tell him that Walt is the only friend he has in the room at the moment, when he found out about the plan it wasn't from him, and if not for his respect for Walt, Gus would be handling the problem in a "different manner".
"Run." Walter saving Jesse from two drug dealers by running them over with his car, shooting the one that survived, and telling him to escape. This is after Walter warns Jesse that he won't be able to protect him since he was stealing meth from the lab, and also spends the whole time lecturing Jesse how killing 2 of Gus' drug dealers would be disaster.
"Full Measure": Walt is well and truly sorry for forcing Jesse into the position of needing to kill Gale.
    Season 4 
Walt telling Gus that he's his only hope to keep the meth business running, so Gus can't kill him, then adding that he also won't do the work if Gus kills Jesse.
During his speech to Gus, he also puts Jesse's name first most of the time, making it clear that while he wants to keep his head, allowing Jesse to be harmed is not worth it.
Jesse pays him back (though unfortunately not with Walt as witness) when Gus seems to be asking him if he could take over the lab if Walt were killed, and Jesse says that Gus will have to kill him too if that happens.
"Bullet Points": Walt's anger towards Jesse for his neglectful behavior turns into anger for Gus' organization when Walt realizes Pinkman is missing. The expression on his face when he asks where he is to the camera in the meth lab makes it clear that Walter White is out for blood.
"Shotgun": The first shot of the episode is a panicked Walt leaving Skyler a voice message on the answering machine to say he loves her. She doesn't hear it until after the two of them sign the paperwork for the car wash, but once she does, the two of them immediately have passionate sex. Following that scene features Skyler and Walt having a very warm conversation, including her playfully chiding him for a compliment about her new haircut, Walt Jr. getting grossed out once he realizes what his parents were doing, and Skyler gently pitching the idea for Walt to move back in with them. It is sweet, domestic, and very normal, in a way that it wasn't really before, and likewise never would be again.
"Hermanos": The fact that Gus set up a scholarship in Max's name. It's even more poignant when you consider that this is a link to his old life that could very easily cause some problems for him if anyone decided to pursue it. It's the sort of loose thread Gus simply doesn't leave, except where Max is concerned.
Jesse pleads with Gus to let Walt go. This, after Jesse proves himself to be more of an asset than Walt and even after their disastrous fight in "Bug".
Walt Jr. in "Salud". He spends his day comforting Walt, who is in a pathetic state after his fight with Jesse, cleaning his house and fixes his glasses. The amount of devotion the kid holds to his obviously flawed dad almost reminds you of the times when Walt's crimes were justified.
While he's starting to drift off, Walt gets Jesse confused with his son. Walt. Gets Jesse. Confused. With his son.
When Jesse is going off on the Cartel's drug manufacturers about how everything has to go his way, the camera shows Gus giving a smile at Jesse's action, quite impressed by the same boy he called a junkie.
Saul is helping Walt set up his family's disappearance (before Walt is aware the money is gone), he ask Saul to call the DEA and tell them Hank's life is in danger. This comes after Gus threatens Walt's entire family if he warns Hank indirectly or otherwise. Capping it off, Walt gives Saul an actual thank you when their conversation concludes.
Jesse spends the entirety of "End Times" at the hospital after Brock's poisoning, doing whatever he can to comfort Andrea and help the situation. Appropriately, he is absolutely mortified by the possibility that he was poisoned with ricin and he immediately races into the hospital past all of the security to tell the doctors his suspicions.
Gus also visits him in the hospital and, after a long and tense conversation where Gus demands he come back to work and Jesse refuses to leave until Brock is fine, Gus decides that one batch can be forsaken and lets him stay with the only caveat being he needs to come in the next day. From someone as ruthless as Gus, it proves that somewhere deep inside him there is still some semblance of a decent man inside.
Better yet, the reveal that Walt poisoned Brock and not Gus means that any ulterior motives he might have had are entirely off the table - Gus knew as little about the situation as Jesse did but he still let him stay.
In spite of their strained relationship Skyler pleads with Walt to come with the rest of the family to Hank's and not let Gus Kill him.Walt refuses since it would put his family in danger and waits in his house, planning to let Gus Kill him to gurantee his family's safety.This was before Walt came up with the plan to poison Brock so his words to Skyler were sincere and it shows that he really is willing to die to protect his family.
"Face Off". Walt showing up to rescue Jesse when he's chained up in Gus' lab. The cavalry's here, bitch!
The framed picture Hector keeps in his nursing room of his nephews when they were kids.
    Season 5 
Mike with his granddaughter.
Made even sweeter in season 5 where we find out he had a slush fund in her name with two million bucks in it. Mike isn't just working to support himself, he's doing it to ensure his granddaughter has a future (drawing a parallel between him and Walt) and it is the concern for her future that motivates him to go against his own judgment and work with Walter White.
Mike leaving a giant load of cash for his granddaughter in a safety deposit box, to be given to her on her 18th birthday.
Walt giving a hundred dollar tip to his Denny's waitress, as he apparently goes off to die in a blaze of glory.
Jesse giving Walt a present for his 51st birthday.
In "Gliding Over All" Walt shows up at Jesse's house and leaves him duffel bags full of cash after previously denying him his buyout.
Hank playing with Holly in "Dead Freight". Holly also utters her first words, "mama!"
Hank hugging Skyler at the diner when he finds out that Walt is/was a drug dealer.
Jesse's first thought on what to do with his five million dollars: give half to Mike's granddaughter, and the other half to the parents of the boy killed at the train heist.
Becomes a Tear Jerker when Walt talks him out of it.
Walt talking business with Skyler about where to put the air fresheners, before talking about buying a second car wash. Before laundering money comes up, they sounds like two people running an honest business, leading a normal life. Kinda of heads into tearjerker territory though, when you consider that Walt could have avoided ever being involved in the meth business if he had just taken that job at Grey Matter. Maybe he and Skyler could've opened up an honest business funded by clean money.
Walt's moment of vulnerability after collapsing due to exhaustion with Skyler. He says that he knows Skyler must have went for a deal and that he'll make it easy and turn himself in and all he wants is for Skyler to not give out the money to the DEA, just sit on it and give it to the kids, just as he intended. It's heartbreaking to see the original Walter White for a moment there — a deeply flawed man who brought all of this on himself, but in the end just wanted to leave something for his children.
Walt's Cool Down Hug to Jesse. It's no longer possible to tell if it was even a bit genuine, but it still a bit nice to see it, considering how hard Jesse needed something like this and how even Walt seems to be shaken by his plea not to jerk him around anymore.
And it seems it actually was genuine given the next episode, where even after Jesse almost burns the house down, Walt insists on doing everything he can to resolve the situation without Jesse getting hurt.
Walt giving Walt Jr. a heartfelt hug after his son gets upset over the possibility of losing his father to cancer.
Walt's "confession" tape that he uses to incriminate Hank is unambiguously horrible, but it still manages to have several moments that show that, somewhere deep in the husk that is Heisenberg, Walt's conscience is still there (the show only shows part of it, but the whole tape can be viewed here:
Despite everything that has happened between the two of them at this point, Walt still goes out of his way to never mention Jesse once, keeping him completely out of the feud between him and Hank.
In a similar vein, he also manages to never mention Mike either. While it's not as much of a gesture as it is to Jesse, Mike is a confirmed criminal to the DEA and it would be easy to tie him to Hank in the video, so the fact that he doesn't can only mean that this is some form of repentance to the man he murdered so pointlessly.
Walt also covers up his own wife's involvement in his empire as much as he can, saying that she only found out after Gus's death, was horrified by what he'd done, and never even implying that she was an active participant in his crimes. It's the exact same strategy he'll use later on in "Ozymandias" and shows that, despite everything, he does truly love his wife.
Walt is finally cornered, caught by Hank with hard evidence as he, Gomez, and Jesse arrive to arrest him. His first instinct is to call Todd for a rescue, but then he looks at them again and realizes that even with as far as he's sunk, this is a step he can't take, so he tells Todd to forget it, and gets a look of absolute peace on his face as Hank calls for him to come out.
Hank telling Marie that he loves her when he arrests Walt. What makes it very sad but heartwarming too that this was the last time he spoke to her.
"It may be a while before I get home."
Walt leaving Holly at the fire department, after having taken her when fleeing from his house. At least it shows he still has some shred of a conscience.
And in the process, making a call to Skyler, knowing the police are there, in which he portrays himself as a terrifying villain who kept Skyler in line through fear throughout the series, exonerating her of any related charges.
This one is very Fridge, but the fact that he claims that he killed Hank is also one of these. He could very well keep telling her that he didn't kill Hank while only he would know he was telling the truth, but instead he chooses to lie, somehow making himself out to be more of a monster than he actually is, and in the process Marie can actually know that Hank is dead instead of holding out hope that he's just missing, giving her at least some closure.
Walt offering Jack his entire money stash to not kill Hank, proving once and for all that underneath the ruthlessness, manipulations, and greed, Walt values his family more than his money. Dean Norris said that moment redeemed Walt in Hank's eyes, at least partially.
Hank's way of telling Walt that his pleading is pointless — he says that even though Walt is the smartest man he has ever met, he still can't understand that Jack has made the decision 10 minutes ago. It not only points out how heartbreaking it was for Hank to learn that Walt is Heisenberg, but also underlining the large respect he felt towards his brother-in-law's intellect. It's also delivered in a surprisingly quiet and tender tone, showing a sign of that feeling of partial redemption Norris mentioned Hank felt Walt had achieved.
It's an extremely dark example, but Walt collapsing in tears at Hank's death can be seen as one. Considering how far Walt had fallen by this point and especially considering the recent threats he had made to Hank to save himself, this moment solidifies the fact that he loves his family and hints that maybe, just maybe... there's still a flicker of goodness inside him...
Even after everything that's happened, Marie still struggles to forgive Skyler, and tries to make what she thinks is Walt's downfall as easy on her and Walter Jr. as possible, letting Skyler be the one to tell him.
One of the sole bright spots of Ozymandias is ironically Walter becoming the mask one last time in order to provide Skyler an alibi. Skyler slowly recognizes what exactly it is he is doing and goes along with it.
In "Granite State" Saul's final bit of legal advice to Walt is for him to turn himself in to save Skyler from prosecution.
In "Felina":
While the relationship between Marie and Skyler is still pretty broken, the former calls the latter to let her know that the cops discovered Walt returned to Albuquerque. Marie, who believes now that Walt had abused Skyler into being his accomplice, also warns her sister to be careful on the slightest chance that Walt manages to get to her (not knowing he's already in the apartment waiting for Skyler to finishing the phone call).
Walt giving Skyler the lottery ticket with the coordinates for her to use as a bargaining chip. This will also allow Hank and Gomez to receive a proper funeral, giving closure to their loved ones, and also allow Skyler to avoid being prosecuted for Walt's crimes and keep custody of their kids.
Walt admitting he wasn't in the meth business for the family, it was for himself. That may sound oddly warped, but in truth, it was heartwarming because he had spent the whole show lying and he finally gave her the truth she and the rest of his family deserved to hear.
Walt's last goodbye to his daughter Holly, just stroking her hair in silence.
Walt watching Flynn return home from afar. He seems at peace knowing that his son will receive the money even though his son still hates him and will never know the money came from him.
In a warped sense, Walt tackling Jesse to the ground so that he wouldn't get mowed down by the M60, thus letting him live. Word of God is that Walt was going to let Jesse die until the moment before the machine gun went off, as he just couldn't hurt the kid. Bonus points for Walter, if viewed a second time, is completely shielding Jesse from the side the machinegun is going off, makes the scene even more heartwarming.
Even sweeter because Walt ultimately dies from a stray bullet fired by the machine gun. That means that not only did Heisenberg — not Walt, Heisenberg, this screwed-up, vicious, selfish, monster of a man — finally do something right for his fallen Morality Pet, he most likely did it at the cost of his own life.
After EVERYTHING that's happened, Walt and Jesse looking at each other one last time... They can't bring themselves to fully get over what they did to each other and they know this is goodbye, giving each other final nods of understanding.
Jesse, finally free, driving away, laughing and crying at the same time.
Walt taking one final stroll through the superlab before dying, with the knowledge that despite his motivations, his family will be exempt from blame and provided for, and that they and Jesse will be safe.
Walt died beating his cancer. Its reveal caused the entire series' events, and he still managed to beat it to the punch and die on his own terms, knowing that he did not die with nothing left for his family as he initially feared would happen.
    Meta examples 
Actor Jonathan Banks' comments in regards to his departure from the show, and Mike's death qualify as this.
"This is a glorious end to a magnificent character, that I've been lucky enough to play. So now you know, I'm a cupcake. 46 years professionally, and this is as good as it's ever been. Thank you."
For the band Badfinger, whose song "Baby Blue" closes out the series with Walt's death. After reaching the height of fame in the 70's, the band suffered a series of professional and personal misfortunes which culminated with two band members committing suicide, and went into relative obscurity. Following the use of their song in the finale, it was reported that online streams of "Baby Blue" have gone up astronomically.
One devoted fan group put an obituary to White in the October 4, 2013 issue of the Albuquerque Journal:
White, Walter AKA "Heisenberg," 52, of Albuquerque, died Sunday after a long battle with cancer, and a gunshot wound. A co-founder of Gray Matter, White was a research chemist who taught high school chemistry, and later founded a meth manufacturing empire. He is survived by his wife Skyler Lambert; son Walter "Flynn" Jr.; and daughter Holly. A private memorial was held by his family. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to a drug abuse prevention charity of your choice. He will be greatly missed.
Then on October 19, 2013, some people carried out a mock funeral procession (including a hearse and a replica of White's meth lab RV) and a funeral service was held at Albuquerque's Sunset Memorial Park cemetery. A headstone placed with a photo of Cranston as White read, "Beloved Husband, Father, Teacher & Entrepreneur: R.I.P. Walter White (September 7, 1959 — September 7, 2011)".
After his third Primetime Emmy win, one of the first things that Aaron Paul said was a request that everyone give another round of applause to the other nominees that didn't win. Aww...
According to IMDb, the flashback scene at the beginning of "Ozymandias" was the final scene filmed for the series, meaning that after all the events that transpire, Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul got to close their time working together on a beautiful, sunny day, in an emotionally much happier place than the last scene we see them in together in-universe.
Almost five years after the end of the series, Vince Gilligan came out and admitted that, although he's not too keen as to what would've happened next, he personally believes that Jesse managed to get away clean and start a new life.
There could have been police right around the next corner. Or there could have been an unfettered, free future for him. I personally would like to think he got away, because he paid his dues tenfold. I like to believe he got away. I don't really know in terms of what he should be doing as a career. I just hope he would get away, and meet somebody nice, and not be a criminal anymore and not face those horrors that he faced. I always liked that character. I always had a soft spot for him.

Awesome / Breaking Bad
 Season 1 
[[AC:Pilot"]
Walt's badass yet hilarious quitting his job at the car wash.
Walter, upon seeing three men, stronger than him, teasing his son in a store, left the store, walked around it, reentered it, and kicked one of them in the back of the leg. He then proceeded to face the three down, and get them to back off.
Awesomer when you take into consideration the fact that this could be seen as Walt exiting and Heisenberg entering.
Walt is coerced into making meth for Krazy 8 and Emilio. While doing so, he uses his knowledge of chemistry to cause the red phosphate to explode in their faces. Turning around this seemingly hopeless situation was an early indication that Walt is indeed capable of being a badass.
Lesson one: don't threaten a guy — who has ready access to red phosphorus AND the knowledge to use it — with a gun. It'll not go well with you and your lungs won't forgive you for quite a while... if you don't wind up dead, that is.
The use of Out of Time Man.
"And the Bag's in the River"

Walter has to decide whether or not to kill Krazy 8 and realizes that Krazy 8 is planning to kill him with a broken shard of plate. Rather than use gunfire, a knife or simply letting him starve, he chokes him to death by pulling on the bike lock holding him by the neck to the pole. Though it stops being an awesome moment when Walter breaks down in tears over the fact that he had to kill someone for the first time.
"Cancer Man"

Walt blows up an asshole stock broker's car with a squeegee across the battery. Even the other people who see it don't even bother to help him put it out as Walt just casually drives away.
"Crazy Handful of Nothin"

Walt blows up Tuco's den with a few crystals of fulminate of mercury, aka mercury (II) fulminate, the stuff that makes some types of gunpowder in a cartridge go "boom!" As a notable piece, this came in the scene after Walt shaved his head bald.
Walt: This... is not meth.
And after the explosion:
Tuco: Are you fuckin' nuts?!
Walt: [holds up the other crystals] Wanna find out?
Raymond Cruz improvising a method of intimidating Walt: putting his lit cigarette out on his own tongue.
"A No Rough Stuff Type Deal"

Skyler, accused by storeowners of stealing the tiara, decides she doesn't have to put up with this mess, pretends to go into labor, and threatens the prospect of bad publicity, also while keeping silent about Marie's culpability so she can deal with the matter on her own terms.
    Season 2 
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
After Walt's borderline near-rape of her, Skyler, acknowledging she knows that Walt is going through a difficult time, firmly lets him know that his issues do not give him the right to take out his woes on her.
When Hank visits Skyler and asks her to support Marie, she snaps and goes on a badass tirade about how he's prioritizing her "spoiled kleptomaniac bitch sister" over her family's real problems.
"Grilled"

Walt and Jesse fighting off Tuco to escape, doing an epic turning of the tables that's executed so perfectly you'd think they planned to get into this situation.
Who's the BITCH now?!
Punctuated by Walt's decision to just leave him there to bleed to death.
Walt's fierce and brief "Reason You Suck" Speech answer to Tuco.
We tried to poison you. We tried to poison you because you're an insane, degenerate piece of filth, and you deserve to die.
Hank taking down Tuco with a shot to the head.
[[AC:"Bit By a Dead Bee"

Also belongs to Funny Moments, but when Hector is apprehended by the DEA following Tuco's death, he refuses to cooperate with them. How does he do this? By purposefully defecating himself, forcing the DEA to wheel him out. His smug grin afterwards sells it.
"Over"

Walt's badass stroll out into the parking lot after intimidating the shit out of a wannabe meth cook as TV on the Radio's "DLZ" plays in the background, culminating in walking up to the punk and his associate as the square up to him, only for them to quickly back down and flee as Walt looks them dead in the eyes with cold fury and issues a simple five word command, "Stay out of my territory". The look in his eyes shows that this is the point where he realizes how much he loves being a badass.
"ABQ"

Skyler tearing down all of Walt's lies throughout the past two seasons. Walt goes from being totally convinced he can blow this off as usual to desperately offering to tell her everything if she'll stay in the house. The moment he starts to realize he's really in trouble?
But then...I called your mother. Yeah. Thanks for that, too.
    Season 3 
"No Mas"
The Cousins walking away from an exploding truck without flinching. One of them even starts smoking a cigarette.
Bryan Cranston, who directed the episode, mentioned in an interview how everyone at that shot were really excited about how badass those two guys performed that scene were.
Skyler figuring out exactly what Walt's been up to the last two seasons. Walt's stunned.
"Caballo Sin Nombre"

The pizza toss. Made more awesome by the fact that Bryan Cranston nailed it on the first take.
Jesse getting his aunt's house back. First Saul "convinces" Jesse's parents to sell it to an unseen client for half the price they want, just by casually revealing he knows about the meth lab in the basement. Later on, Jesse, just as casually, walks to the front door while his parents try to get him to leave before the new owner comes by. Jesse shows them the keys, waltzes inside, and leaves his parents stunned.
"I.F.T."

For those few who like Skyler and think she was in the right being angry at Walt, there was this line:
Skyler: I fucked Ted.
Gus pushing exactly the right buttons to get Walt back to cooking. He plays to his greed for money and power, his pride in the quality of his product, his love for his family to do anything to provide for them, and his love and respect of chemistry by showing him the state-of-the-art equipment he's procured for Walt to produce in bulk and in complete security and secrecy. Manipulative Bastardry at its finest.
"One Minute"

Hank vs. The Cousins. Hank survives two characters shown to be axe-wielding mass-murderers with only one minute's warning. And he's unarmed to begin. And he manages to survive multiple gunshots to his torso. And he kills the 2nd cousin after being shot to hell. Holy Shit.
"I See You"

Gus' plan to take out his Mexican opposite number and take over the whole operation. Especially impressive in how fast he was able to put such a complex plan together, and have it work perfectly.
Later seasons and Better Call Saul actually make clear that this is part of a revenge plan he's been working on for two decades.
"Kafkaesque"

Skyler coming up with a complex cover story on the spot about how she and Walt are in a position to pay Hank's medical bills, even integrating Walt's "fugue state" ploy.
"Fly"

Bottle Episode or not, don't you dare say that the titular fly falling dead at Walter's feet isn't awesome.
Especially since Jesse managed to luck out and get the fly while he climbed down from the ladder.
"Half Measures"

Jesse Pinkman standing up to friggin' Gus Fring, minutes after meeting him personally for the first time and full-on knowing Fring is who he is. It may not have accomplished much, but it took an enormous amount of guts and he did it with little to no hesitation.
In the final scene, Walt runs over two gang members before they could kill Jesse. He then takes the gun from the survivor and shoots him in the head. He tells Jesse to "Run!"
"Full Measure"

Mike storming that warehouse and killing those guys with the silenced pistol. Prior to that, he uses party balloons to disable the security at Chow's warehouse, and then using Chow's expression of sheer terror to figure out where the Cartel assassin is on the other side of a wall.
As Victor and Mike prepare to kill Walt, he tricks them into letting him call Jesse under the pretense he'll sell him out. It's actually so he can tell Jesse what's going on and tell him to kill Gale, giving him the leverage to have Gus keep him alive. The best part is the Oh, Crap! reaction Victor and Mike give Walt as he recites Gale's address and they realize what he's done.
Walter: You might want to hold off.
Mike: Yeah? [cocks gun] Why?
Walter: Because your boss is gonna need me. 6353 Juan Tabo, Apartment 6.
Mike: [Oh, Crap! Realization Face]
Walter: Yeah.
    Season 4 
"Box Cutter"
Gus' first non-flashback appearance. Every. Single. Second. Of it.
It's so incredibly unlike him that even Mike jumps back in shock.
Jesse also has to be recognized here: As Walt is struggling not to vomit, Jesse, who's been catatonic for the whole episode after killing Gale, looks at Gus with an unflinching "bring it on" gaze.
"Thirty Eight Snub"

Mike calmly listening to Walt's case that they should team up to kill Gus, and then walloping him right in the middle of the bar without a word.
"Open House"

Jesse driving in a go-kart track, taking out his frustration, while yelling at the top of his lungs. It sends shivers down one's spine.
Skyler swindling away the car wash Walt used to work at to use to launder their drug money, for less money than she originally offered and telling the owner straight out it's because she doesn't like him. Made more awesome by the fact that neither Walt nor Saul thought she could pull it off and by the fact that, once she did pull it off for the original offer, she went the extra mile and got the owner to call her back after reducing the price. Accounting, after all, seems to be her turf...
"Bullet Points"

Mike killing two Cartel gunmen who attack a shipment, followed by simply acting slightly annoyed when he realizes part of his ear was shot off.
"Cornered"

"I am not in danger, Skyler! I am the danger! A guy opens his door and gets shot, and you think that of me? No! I am the one who knocks."
Now with an alternate version by Samuel L. Jackson.
"Problem Dog"

Hank figuring out Gus' role in things by following a seemingly ridiculous hunch and tricking Gus into pretty much giving him his fingerprints.
"Bug"

Gus' Unflinching Walk through a hail of bullets, calling out the Cartels' sniper bluff that they won't kill him.
Skyler gives a performance of her lifetime pretending to be a ditzy vapid hussy in front of the IRS investigator in order to write off Ted's fraud as her ignorance in bookkeeping. It's wasted on Ted, of course, but she gets mad props for her acting skills.
"Salud"

Jesse's Badass Boast to Benicio Fuentes, the chief chemist of the Juarez Cartel superlab:
I'm the guy your boss brought here to show you how it's done. And if this is how you run your lab...no wonder. You're lucky he hasn't fired your ass. Now, if you don't want that to happen, I suggest you stop whining like a little bitch...and do what I say.
Leading up to this, Jesse grows some courage and, when he learns that he was expected to synthesize a key ingredient that had always been provided for him at Gus's lab, not only demands it be brought to him, but chews out Fuentes on the unkempt state of his lab.
Jesse: [to Gus] Tell this asshole that if he wants to learn how to make my product, he's gotta do it my way. The right way.
Fuentes: ...I speak English.
Jesse: Then you know what the word "asshole" means. Now go get me my phenylacetic acid.....asshole.
In the Cartel lab, Jesse cooks meth with 96% purity. Remember that Gale Boetticher, a trained chemist with a master's degree, also created 96% purity methamphetamine. Granted, he's cooking someone else's formula, but he's doing it from memory, under pressure, and equals trained chemists with years of experience. One would imagine if he applied himself in graduate school, he could actually be an amazing chemist.
Gus killing Don Eladio and all his capos with poisoned Tequila. To get them to drink it, he first has to drink a shot himself, then lets slip nothing for a while afterwards, until he finally asks to use the bathroom shortly before the poison will take effect so he can throw it up. And even when he's alone, he still goes through the process as calmly and methodically as possible. Afterwards, he starts feeling some of the effects, but still manages to shout to the survivors that their boss is dead, so they should just grab some stuff from the corpses and leave. He's pretty much becoming a bigger Magnificent Bastard with every new scene by now.
The scene also includes Mike garroting the Cartel's sniper, and Jesse gunning down the one Cartel member left before driving away with the seriously wounded Mike and poisoned Gus.
"Crawl Space"

Despite th Nightmare Fuel content, on a meta-level, Bryan Cranston's portrayal of Walt's Laughing Mad Heroic BSoD/Villainous Breakdown is just amazing in that scene.
After Gus recovers from being poisoned, he makes sure to visit Don Salamanca's nursing home to make sure he knows what happened, and who it was who did it. He tells him that Jesse killed the only blood he had left on earth, and the cartel he worked his whole life for is exterminated. An incredible example of Best Served Cold, especially since Don Salamanca is the one who killed Gus' best friend/surrogate brother/very possible lover.
"Face Off"

While Saul is lying low, Francesca, his secretary, forces Walt to part with $25,000 so she'll contact Saul for him. This is also while Gus' agents are scoping out Walt's house, forcing him to risk an encounter with said gunmen to get her cash. This is basically the only time in the entire series anyone suffers no consequences for fucking with Walt.
Gus and his henchmen are walking to his car, which, little do they know, has been rigged to explode by Walter. On his way, Gus begins to sense that something is amiss. He stops before entering the car, walks over to a view of the city from the hospital parking garage and starts gazing out at the city. He is not entirely sure if Walt is on one of the buildings in the distance with binoculars, freaking out due to the sheer fact that his target has already seen through his plan. It doesn't matter. Gus just walks away, leaving his car behind... Damn. He dies later on, but still.
After the bomb explodes, Gus coolly walks out of the room and adjusts his tie as if nothing has happened. And then we see that he's missing half of his face, and he drops dead.
What's especially powerful about Gus' death is that it's perfectly in character. There is no sense of remorse or spite. Gus retains his dignity until the very end. What might have been a lesser character's Villainous Breakdown, Gus merely adjusts his tie, and and gives a stoic, nonchalant look into space, as if to say "well played, Walter." Probably the greatest death scene in the entire show.
Equally awesome is Salamanca's death in the same way, a character who had been helpless and immobile for the entire run of the series up until this point gives Gus the Death Glare to end all death glares before finally getting revenge for the deaths of his family members, as well as going out in a blaze of glory.
Walt and Jesse burn down the super-methlab.
After Gus' demise, Skyler contacts Walt to see if he is alright, and his reply...
Walter White: I won.
Walt's Kansas City Shuffle over the season's final two episodes in which he murders Gus. Awesome because it retroactively highlights his transition from Action Survivor fearing for his family's lives to Magnificent Bastard drug kingpin, especially the Lily Of The Valley he grew in his backyard, signifying he was a few more steps ahead of Gus than the others thought he was.
    Season 5 A 
Even the promo for Season 5 contains one. Saul is trying to quit as Walt's lawyer, when Walt stands, gets in Saul's face, and growls "We're done when I say we're done."
"Live Free Or Die"

The season's opening scene: a flashforward where Walt makes an illicit deal which leaves him with a car key. Then it turns out he was actually buying what was in the trunk of the car: a freaking M60 MACHINE GUN.
Jesse actually gets to save his, Walt's, and Mike's bacon with his Crazy Enough to Work idea of using a junkyard magnet to erase Gus' laptop while it's in the evidence room.
He tops this with his idea to rob a train, without anyone ever knowing.
Mike getting the drop on another hitman by leaving one of his granddaughter's toys knocking against the door.
The crew needs to come up with a way to cook while hiding in plain sight. So Walt comes up with the most brilliant, most audacious idea ever — they create a mobile lab and cook in other people's houses, posing as a pest control company.
"Hazard Pay"

A small one: Skinny Pete, Jesse's junkie friend from which no one would expect any talent, starts playing "Solfegietto" by Christian Phillip Emmanuel Bach at the music instrument store. It leaves you thinking what would have been from him if he hadn't done meth.
Skyler telling Marie what the entire audience has wanted to tell her since the series began: "Shut up! Shut up! Just shut up!"
Mike dealing a nasty blow to Walt's ego and neatly summing up Gus's legacy, all with just one line. "Just because you shot Jesse James, don't make you Jesse James."
When Walt goes completely Heisenberg on Skyler, tearing down each of her plans to protect their kids from him, she finally shuts him up by simply stating that her only real plan is to hold out and hope his cancer comes back. And 90% of the viewers voted that they agreed with her.
Also, her awesome jab: "I thought YOU were the danger."
"Fifty-One"

The new car scene. It's set to Knife Party.
[[AC:"Dead Freight"

Two words: train heist!. Totally successful one too, up until the last minute of the episode where Todd shoots a child witness.
"Buyout"

Walt MacGyvering his way out of zipcuffs with an exposed wire from a coffee machine, which he holds on the cuffs until they break even as it also burns his wrist.
Todd getting punched by Jesse counts after Todd tries to rationalize shooting a child dead.
"My Name"

Walt's deal to keep his meth business while making his competitors into his employees, culminating one of the most iconic moments in the franchise.
Declan: Who the hell are ya?
Walt: You know. You all know exactly who I am. [beat] Say My Name.
Declan: Do what? I do– I don't have a damn clue who the hell you are.
Walt: Yeah you do. I'm the cook. I'm the man who killed Gus Fring.
Declan: Bullshit. Cartel got Fring.
Walt: You sure?
[all the dealers look at each other nervously, while Mike gives a 'kid, just don't' shake of his head]
Walt: That's right. Now... Say My Name.
Declan: [terrified whisper] You're Heisenberg.
Walt: You're goddamn right.
Mike's "The Reason You Suck" Speech to Walt, and after this drives Walt to shoot him, his last words are still telling Walt "Shut the fuck up, and let me die in peace."
Walt and Jesse arguing about Jesse leaving the meth trade, culminating in Jesse walking out while Walt yells at him.
"Gliding Over All"

All ten "loose ends" getting killed in prison in increasingly brutal fashion, including one being burnt alive. All of them are pulled off in the space of two minutes.
Walt and Todd pulling off multiple cooks while Lydia cooperates with sending their meth business off to the Czech Republic.
"You got me!" and Hank's look of sheer disbelief afterwards.
    Season 5 B 
"Blood Money"
Skyler telling Lydia to get the hell out of the car wash:
Skyler: Get out of here. Now.
Lydia: Excuse me?
Skyler: Never come back here. Do you understand me?
Lydia: I...
Skyler: Go.
Jesse having a smoke in Saul's waiting room to piss off Huell and Francesca. Smoking Is Cool taken to maximum proportions.
"It was you. All along it was YOU!" And the punch that preceded it.
"Maybe your best course of action would be to tread lightly."
Hell, the entire garage scene was this, for both the characters and the actors.
Jesse demanding Walt actually drop all the lies for once, and just tell him the real reason he wants him to do something. It doesn't work, but it's definitely something Walt deserves at this point.
Hank's montage reviewing all the evidence related to Heisenberg, going all the way back to the thermite incident at the start of the show. Seeing him put 5 seasons worth of history together in the span of two minutes is very cool.
"Buried"

Marie slapping Skyler when she learns the whole truth, including that Skyler knew exactly what was going on when Hank was shot by the Cousins. And then she tells Hank to do whatever it takes to bring Walt down.
Next episode, she doubles down and tells Walt to his face that maybe he should kill himself if he really wants this drama to go away.
"Confessions"

Walt's confession: claiming Hank was the real mastermind who used him as a patsy, and tying in several events across the show's history to give him a completely airtight case if Hank doesn't stop chasing him. And all while giving a flawless performance as the kind of person he was when the show started.
Also, it's the smuggest way to deliver the real kicker of the tape: that even if Hank decides to risk it and try to bring Walt down, he's already lost, since Marie used Walt's drug money to pay for his treatment.
"Rabid Dog"

Hank convincing Jesse to back off his rash decision to commit arson, and in spite of their past history, treating him fairly decently. (Well, mostly.)
Jesse having the courage to tell everything he knows about Walter White and to contradict Hank and Gomez regarding how they think Walter White will handle his meeting with Jesse. And on top of that, Jesse rattling Walter's cage right at the end.
"Tohajiilee"

Hank and Jesse work together to create a brilliant plan to trap Walt with hard evidence against him. It culminates in the arrest taking place completely in real time, letting us see every single step as Heisenberg is brought down. Normally, this kind of thing would come off as Padding, but here the show has earned every single second of the moment it's been building towards for five seasons.
And the fact that they do it with little more than a camera phone, a barbecue pit, intimate knowledge of how Walt will react, and brains (no, literally)...
Jesse spitting on Heisenberg. Considering the way Walt used and abused Jesse over the course of his career as "Heisenberg", it's a very awesome comeback.
"Ozymandias"

Hank facing his imminent death with clarity and dignity.
My name is ASAC Schrader, and you can go fuck yourself.
Marie's firm but fair and more than justified talk with Skyler.
Walt Jr./Flynn on the same day he finds out his father is Heisenberg, tackles him off of Skyler when they start to fight, then calls the police on Walt right in front of him. This from a kid who's needed crutches to walk for the whole series.
Walt's last phone call to Skyler. With the understanding that the speech is meant to absolve Skyler from any culpability.
One of the hardest hitting lines in the whole episode is said by a baby. Even better? It wasn't scripted.
"Granite State"

Saul finally grows a spine and says two words to Walt he should have said 2 seasons ago: "It's over".
Ed nonchalantly telling Saul that it'll be about 2 days to erase his identity and give him a new life in Nebraska.
Jesse's escape from his prison. Even though he doesn't get out of the compound, the sheer fact that he managed to get out of his outside dungeon is pretty damn awesome.
Flynn's (previously known as Walt Jr.) long overdue "Reason You Suck" Speech to Walt. While it doubles as a Tear Jerker since Walt had become more sympathetic after realizing the consequences of his actions, it was still nice to see the character Locked Out of the Loop the longest outright refuse his father's money and furiously remind Walt of his role in Hank's death.
At the end, Walt storms out of the New Hampshire bar after seeing a news report of blue meth still circulating and Gray Matter refusing to acknowledge any of his contributions to the company. What really sells this scene, though, is the full Breaking Bad theme playing as policemen arrive at an empty bar.
"Felina"

The entire finale is one for Walt. He has become a full Magnificent Bastard and demonstrates it with full gusto, executing an obviously well-laid plan one step at a time to ultimately get everything he could hope for at this point — money for his children, freedom for Skyler and Jesse, a proper burial for Hank and Gomez, vengeance on Jack, Todd, Lydia, and their associates, and death on his own terms.
The death scene itself for doing the nigh impossible of being both a straight up The Bad Guy Wins ending AND a subversion. At the end of Walt's journey, he's finally dying with all of his major goals accomplished, with nothing but fondness for the life he'd led and no regrets at all — he even succumbs to the bullet wound before the police find him, going out on his own terms rather than waiting for his cancer or the law to do him in. But we also see visually the sum of all the sacrifices he'd made and all that he'd lost, in that he dies in a meth lab. There's no one, friends or family, to give him comfort in his final moments, no money, no prizes or rewards of any kind - just lots and lots of meth and equipment. That's when it dawns on you that this is his life at the very end — his career as Heisenberg consumed his entire life. Basically, he came for his family, but stayed for the meth. It makes for a moment that is simultaneously proud AND pitiful.
Walt blackmailing Gretchen and Elliott with hitmen to give his money to Walter Jr. for him. The fact that the hitmen turn out to just be Badger and Skinny Pete with laser pointers doesn't make it any less awesome.
If anything, it makes it more awesome. Remember, it was hearing Gretchen and Elliott cutting Walt out of Grey Matter's success that caused Walt to decided to head back to Albuquerque and tie up loose ends. He actually could have had them killed... but instead chose to scare them into passing his remaining money to his children, with a death threat that never was to begin with.
Walt's final meeting with Skyler has him finally stop throwing his family under the bus for the motive for his actions and fully admit that a majority of his "Heisenberg" actions were more for himself than his family. Finally seeing him own up to his actions and his ego after the events of the past year and how he constantly fell back on his family as justification definitely counts.
Walt gunning down the Neo-Nazis with an automatic machine gun. And then killing Jack, even though it means he'll never See his money.
Scumbag though he may be, Jack taking his One Last Smoke before dying is pretty ballsy.
Walt's M60 opening fire. That brief moment when the trunk opens to reveal the gun is equally awesome.
Jesse killing Todd by strangling him with his handcuffs. Accompanied by a rather satisfying sound of Todd's neck snapping.
At a viewing party of the finale at the Spot Bar in LA, the amount of cheering and screaming that ensues when Jesse wraps his cuffs around Todd's throat is so loud that the audio is clipping.
Walt telling Lydia over the phone that he poisoned her with the ricin.
Jesse getting in a car and driving at high speeds, busting through the gates in the process. The joy in his face and the freedom he has regained makes it an awesome ending for him.
Jesse telling Walt to just give him the honest truth for once, and this time it works. And then Jesse still doesn't kill him, refusing to let Walt dictate anything about his life anymore, a far more fitting revenge in the end.
And the fact that Walter accepts this, without trying any more tricks. Almost crosses into Heartwarming Moment.
Vince Gilligan's direction deserves its own spot, as Walt spends the whole episode appearing to just fade in and out of scenes, like a ghost who's finally done haunting these people.
    Meta-Examples 
The viewership for "Granite State." It was competing against Sunday Night Football, the series finale of Dexter, and, in the Eastern and Central time zones, the Emmy awards, and it still managed to break the show's viewing record, getting 6.58 million viewers.
The episode "Ozymandias" itself is one for the cast and crew. It not only broke the show's viewing record, getting 6.37 million viewers, it also received unprecedented acclaim from critics and fans alike. Many critics are hailing it as, not only the best episode in the series, but a contender for the best single episode in television history! Accompanying this, it had a perfect 10/10 on IMDB for well over a year, with nearly 56,000 people having rated it, the only item on the entire site that had such a score from so many people. It would later drop to 9.9/10, before returning to 10/10 in early 2016 following a crackdown on troll voters, holding that score for over a year. As of May 2017, it's back at 9.9/10 from over 87000 votes. And in August 2019, it regained its perfect 10/10 score with over 105 thousand votes!
"Felina" was watched by 10.28 million people when it first aired, setting a record for non-football broadcast TV.
This is even more impressive considering the series started with less than a million viewers and before 2013, its record was 2.9 million viewers. With the Final Eight, it saw an astronomical increase, it shattering its own viewing record four times.
The entire Final Eight for the cast and crew. It's hard to think of a more intense, emotionally-compelling, and wonderfully written ending to a beloved series than this.
Before the finale, Badfinger was an obscure band that had faded from common memory. The use of their song, 'Baby Blue' in the finale increased interest in the song by a large percentage, and it might actually have brought them out of obscurity.
Giancarlo Esposito's long-con to become a main character on the show. Gus was originally meant to be a one-off guest character, but Giancarlo played him as a frighteningly calm man with secrets which enraptured audiences and had them demanding more. When he did another guest apperance for Season 2 it solidified Gus's Ensemble Dark Horse reception, and Esposito had all the cards when, for season 3, he said he'd only come back if he was given a regular slot.
Anthony Hopkins binge-watched the entire series in two weeks and then sent a letter to Bryan Cranston praising the show and Cranston in particular, calling his performance as Walter White "the best acting [he's] seen — ever."
Anthony Hopkins: Thank you. That kind of work/artistry is rare, and when, once in a while, it occurs, as in this epic work, it restores confidence.
He was also so impressed by Giancarlo Esposito that he recommended the Westworld crew put him on the show, resulting in a quite memorable cameo.
The show pretty much sweeping the 2014 Primetime Emmys, winning Series, Writing (for the series' best episode, "Ozymandias") and acting for Cranston, Paul, AND Gunn. Notably, the show was one of the very few to win the top prize in drama for a final season (alongside The Sopranos and Upstairs Downstairs), and Cranston was able to pull out the victory over a heavy favorite in Matthew McConaughey (for True Detective). Take into account the win for Editing it received at the Creative Arts Ceremony, and Breaking Bad earned 6 prizes for its final season, the most it ever received in a single year. Just. Awesome.
In addition, despite ending almost a year before, you would be hard-pressed to find too many people complaining about the wins it took. This was a series that truly deserved the praise that it got.
Bryan Cranston's final (fourth) win also tied him for most victories in the Lead Actor in a Drama Series category, making him the only one to match Dennis Franz's performance in NYPD Blue. Similarly, Aaron Paul became the first person to win the Supporting Actor category three times since it was separated from Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series in 1970.
Additionally, the show actually increased in Emmy nominations almost every year it was on the air, reflecting the increasing prominence and acclaim it was bestowed as it progressed. Along with the fact that their best episode was one of their last, this makes Breaking Bad probably one of the biggest, if not the biggest, aversion of Seasonal Rot ever.
Season 1: 4 nominations (2 wins)
Season 2: 5 nominations (2 wins)
Season 3: 7 nominations (2 wins)
Season 4: 13 nominations (1 win)
Season 5a: 13 nominations (3 wins)
Season 5b: 11 nominations (6 wins)
Bryan Cranston's performance as Walter White becoming only the fourth performance in television history to win an Emmy Award, a Golden Globe, a SAG award, a TCA prize for Individual Achievement, and a Critics Choice Television Award. The other three prior to him were Tina Fey in 30 Rock, Julianna Margulies in The Good Wife, and Claire Danes in Homeland. Even discounting the Critics Choice Award as too recent a prize to count for a sample size, that still only adds in Alec Baldwin for 30 Rock, James Gandolfini and Edie Falco for The Sopranos, and Paul Giamatti for John Adams. Quite a pantheon of performances.
Walt's mighty return for a 2015 Super Bowl Esurance commercial. Not only is he dressed in his meth suit, but Cranston nails the performance even two years after the series ended. He even reenacts the "say my name" bit (with a more commercial-friendly response, of course).
Not only that, but Jesse got a narrating job for a Weight Watchers commercial, and he does a damn good job at trying to convince the viewer into eating whatever they want, overlayed with footage of Food Porn.
This line from the Trickster in The Flash (2014): "This is going to be my masterpiece. My Mona Lisa. My Breaking Bad season five." Yes, even psychopathic comic book villains love the show that much.
The Mythbusters managed to debunk two of White's dirty tricks in their Breaking Bad special, but they prove the last one (the automated machine gun in the trunk) as not only functional (after a few test runs), but working almost exactly as shown. Even Vince Gilligan was left with his jaw on the floor.
Bryan Cranston made a cameo as Walter in a 2016 episode of Saturday Night Live revealing that he'd faked his death and had been laying low, until he was appointed the head of the DEA by Donald Trump.
Bob Odenkirk casually revealing that El Camino had already been finished without anyone knowing, meaning that the entire production team and crew managed to keep the movie a secret without a single person leaking anything about it.

Breaking Bad / Tropes E to L
Ear Worm: For Walt the catchy theme song for a furniture store’s late-night commercials where he bought Walter Junior’s crib 16 years ago. "Don’t let shopping strain your brain-o, Just sing this short refrain-o, Our furniture is buen-o, Tampico is the name-o!"
Early Installment Weirdness:
Bryan Cranston's Bald of Awesome and Beard of Evil are now iconic for the show, so people might be a little startled to see him with a full head of hair and a particularly bad mustache in the first few episodes.
The topless woman in the pilot. The show was eventually picked up by AMC, which doesn't show nudity.
Note the much later Binge Montage which takes place at a strip club and somehow never shows a nipple.
The F-word flows more freely in the first season as well, with several uses per episode. Subsequent seasons were limited to 1-2 uses per season.
Throughout Season 1, Hank is much more animated and sniffs here and there (leading some to theorize he was meant to have an ironic drug problem). He's noticably less animated and the sniffing is completely gone by Season 2.
Skyler is portrayed as kind of a lame, out-of-it, ignorant-of-modern-culture mother type for much of the first season. That disappears by season two, when she gets much more depth as a character.
Season 1 had the Black Comedy up front, and a pronounced satirical edge. While the humor was still there in later seasons, it was more subdued, while the satire largely vanished as the show became more of a straightforward crime drama and Tragedy.
Earn Your Happy Ending:
As happy as it gets for a prideful cancer-stricken drug kingpin. In the end, despite everything Walt had done and been through, he has secured the future of his children, eliminated everyone who menaced his family, and, finally, died on his own terms.
Jesse spends the series being used by everyone around him and makes multiple failed attempts to go straight. In the final episode, he chokes Todd to death and the last shot of him in the series is him driving away from the compound where he was Made a Slave, tears of joy streaming down his face.
Epic Fail:
Walt's hilarious attempt to shatter a glass office door with a potted palm tree; the only thing that broke was the tree. Well, and Walt's composure. Oh, and then he got dragged outside by staff.
Walt discovers a housefly in the meth lab. He begins trying to swat the fly, but it's just too fast for him. Growing increasingly frustrated, he spots the fly on the ceiling and throws his shoe at it — and ends up breaking an overhead light, raining glass down on himself. His shoe gets stuck in the light fixture. Then, he goes up on the catwalk and over the railing to dislodge his stuck shoe, spots the fly on the railing he's hanging from and attempts to have a swing at it... and falls off the catwalk, slamming stomach-first into a vat and landing painfully on the floor. Just to make things worse, the fly then lands on his glasses.
Referred to in Season 4: "That's what the kids call an 'Epic Fail'".
Empathy Doll Shot: The teddy bear in the pool, as well as a doll in the background of a derelict junkie house in season 2.
Emperor Scientist: Walt becomes one of these to the criminal underworld utilizing his chemistry skills to try his hand at building a meth empire.
Enemy Mine:
How Walter gets Héctor Salamanca to kill Gus.
Hank and Jesse come to an arrangement like this regarding Walt in Season 5.
Establishing Character Moment:
Walt's first line of dialogue. The audience is first led to think that he's about to make a confession video...only for Walt to say, "This is not admission of guilt."
Jesse first shows up stumbling out of a window half-naked just moments after the DEA barged into the meth lab he is supposed to be working in.
Skyler's ECM happens when she is giving Walt a handjob as his birthday present... But before Walt can climax, Skyler gets distracted when she sees something else come up, leaving Walt in the cold.
As for Hank, it's when he takes his brother-in-law's glass, raises it for a toast... and then drinks from it himself.
As if his cheesy TV commercial wasn't enough, the first time Saul appears in the flesh, he wipes the floor with a gawky cop that was interrogating Badger.
In his first couple of scenes, Todd appears to be a competent, unfailingly polite henchman. Then he unhesitatingly kills a child in cold blood.
Establishing Series Moment:
The opening RV scene. Walt desperately drives only in his underpants, with an unconscious figure beside him and two more in the cabin, only to crash into a ditch soon after. It's a simple and subtle hint how things will just go downhill from this point on.
Walter's chemistry lecture to his students about how life is about growth, decay, and transformation is equally establishing, summing up both the series and especially Walter perfectly.
Eureka Moment:
Hank has his when he finds a copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass in the Whites' bathroom containing a written message from Gale to his other favorite "W.W.".
Walt, when he watches Elliott and Gretchen being interviewed on Charlie Rose. He realizes that he can get his money to his family without them rejecting it (or it being seized by the FBI), if he compels the Schwartzes to donate it to them.
Even Evil Has Loved Ones: A recurring theme. All of the important villains have family or friends they care about.
Walter, rapidly losing any moral high ground he might have started with, and his meth production motivated more by greed and pride than anything else, still loves his family, and he does care for Jesse too. Though by the end of Season 5, he has alienated everyone he loved, but still not deterred to provide and secretly care for them, and in one case, even avenge them.
A flashback reveals that the Salamanca kids have had this stomped into them by their uncle Héctor. Tuco cares for his uncle in spite of being an Axe-Crazy meth-head drug lord, and the Salamanca twins make an arduous journey into America to ruthlessly avenge Tuco's death. And when Gus eliminates most of the Salamancas and their gang, Hector volunteers to blow up both of them.
Gus' main motive for being in organized crime is to avenge the murder of his best friend and would-be partner in crime, Max.
Mike is devoted to his granddaughter Kaylee.
Todd also has a strong relationship with his uncle Jack and his gang.
Also, Lydia loves her only daughter.
Evil Cannot Comprehend Good: Gus won't stop even a second trying to understand why Walter would ever want to save the life of a despicable junkie like Jesse, at the cost, no less, of putting his drug dealing operation at risk. From that moment on, he will consider Walter an unreliable liabilty and conspire to replace and then kill him, or at very least, to outrageously fire him.
Gus: No rational person would do as you have done.
Even Evil Has Standards:
Gus is insulted by Walt's implied accusation that he had a child killed. Subverted when he openly threatens to have Walt's family, including his infant daughter, murdered.
Even Victor is disturbed and angered by all-around Nice Guy Gale's death.
Although implied since almost the beginning, Walt finally stated to Saul in one episode that hurting any family members is a line that he will never, ever cross. Given how much Walt's morals have descended over the course of the series, that's saying a lot. Indeed, when finally cornered by Hank and Jesse, Walt opts to surrender and be arrested rather than harm his brother-in-law.
Although Walt did poison Brock, he made sure he didn't administer a lethal dose so that Brock gets treated quickly and safely.
Mike seems to be disgusted by Walt bombing a nursing home and by the idea of bombing a police station and killing a bunch of cops. He is also extremely pissed at Todd for killing a kid. Given that Mike is both an ex-cop and a grandfather it makes sense.
Saul refuses to give up Walt and Jesse's location to Mike at the end of Season 3, risks his own life when he tips off the DEA to the hit on Hank in late Season 4, and is horrified in "Live Free or Die" when he learns that he was involved in Walt's plan to poison Brock.
When Uncle Jack and his Nazis take Walt's barrels of money, Jack does leave Walt with one barrel, out of respect to him.
Evil Is Petty: After Walter and Skyler conspire to force Bogdan to sell them his carwash at a loss (implied to be all that he has), Walter then refuses to let Bogdan leave with the first dollar he'd earned (which he had framed on the wall). To cap it all off, as soon as Bogdan is gone, Walt smashes the frame and spends the dollar on a drink from the vending machine. While Bogdan earned some of this by having humiliated Walt in the past, it still comes across as unnecessarily cruel.
Walt also still holds a massive grudge about impulsively accepting $5000 for his share of Gray Matter, which later grew into a company valued in the billions. Granted, it must be galling to see that happen, but it does seem awfully petty to have failed to get over it more than twenty years later.
Evil vs. Evil:
The conflict between Gus and the Cartel. Both sides have well proven how morally terrible they are, and despite Gus's organization being presented in a A Lighter Shade of Black around the time the conflict hit its apex, Gus then threatened to kill Walt's entire family, including his baby daughter. This after the audience had been given the impression he didn't want to use children for nefarious purposes or harm them in any fashion.
While it started as a dark Black and Grey Morality, by the end, Walter's conflict against Gus turned into this.
Exactly What It Says on the Tin: In-Universe.
Walt: Ice Road Truckers. What happens on that show?
Jesse: Guys drive trucks. On ice.
Expository Theme Tune: The Ballad of Heisenberg, from "Negro y Azul".
Expy: Starting from the second season of Game of Thrones (and the second book of A Song of Ice and Fire), the character Strong Belwas◊ was supposed to make an appearance. Strong Belwas, a towering, fat black man was supposed to make part of the retinue of Daenerys Targaryen. Based on the character's physical similarity to Huell◊, the fans mused that Strong Belwas did not appear in Game Of Thrones because he is still stuck at the apartment.
Face Death with Dignity:
Mike decides to sit on a rock in silence, admiring the Scenery Porn, as he dies of a gut shot.
Hank in "Ozymandias", staring down the barrel of a neo-Nazi's gun.
Hank: My name is ASAC Schrader, and you can go fuck yourself.
Walt peacefully dies in the Aryan meth lab, with no regrets and agony over his incoming death.
Face Framed in Shadow: Very often; numerous important conversations have the lighting do this for both characters, switching back and forth between shots of their faces.
Face–Heel Turn: The whole series is one big one for Walt himself.
Face of a Thug: Jesse's assumptions about this regarding a random stranger causes his relationship with Walt to permanently sour in season 5. They've both retired from the drug business at this point but Jesse is working with the DEA to bring Walt down, whom he suspects is trying to have him killed to tie up loose ends. They agree to meet in a public space, but Jesse notices a man dressed like a Neo-Nazi skinhead standing close to Walt. He assumes this man to be a hitman and calls off the meeting, but it turns out the guy was just there to pick up his daughter.
Facial Horror: Gus' death in "Face Off". He turns to the camera, adjusting his tie to reveal his face blasted down to a gory skull on one side, before collapsing dead.
"Facing the Bullets" One-Liner: "My name is ASAC Schrader, and you can go fuck yourself."
Failed a Spot Check:
Somehow, the Nazis just plumb forgot to check under that car.
They didn't check Walt's trunk in "Felina", either.
Earlier, Tyrus fails to spot the bomb attached to Hector's wheelchair.
Failed Attempt at Drama: While it is certainly not played for laughs, Walt tries to threaten Saul into working for him before they leave with their new identities but is interrupted by a long coughing fit. This prompts Saul to leave as soon as he could before Walt could finish.
Fall Guy:
Saul helps set one up for Heisenberg, since Walt and Jesse refuse to off Badger.
Skyler after Walt flees following Hank's death. Saul points out that the police will not overlook the deaths of two DEA agents and will make damn sure that someone takes the blame for it. And since she doesn't know where Walt is and has no other useful information about his drug empire to cut a deal with the authorities, she will be punished instead, losing her house and her business. Averted after Walt visits Skyler for the last time and gives her the location of Hank and Steve's bodies, telling her to trade it for a plea bargain.
False Cause: The discredited notion of a "gateway drug" rears its head when Hank tries to scare Walter Jr. straight.
Family Man: Walter White is a man worried about his family and especially for his children, before and after becoming a drug lord.
Famous Last Words: See here.
Fanservice:
Jane does quite a bit of it in the second season.
The boob shot in the pilot.
The stripper party intro in "Sunset"
The strippers in "Más." Complete with lesbian kissing and nipple shots.
Fantastic Drug: Walter's 99.1% chemically pure crystal methamphetamine, Blue Sky. To give an idea about how insane for a product of that purity to exist on the illegal drug scene, the average purity in the Breaking Bad world was 70% for illegal meth. AND it's blue!
Fate Worse than Death: Jesse in "Ozymandias." Instead of killing him, Jack's gang takes him captive, tortures him for information, and then forces him to cook meth for them by threatening Andrea and Brock. Aaron Paul himself has said that Jesse would definitely prefer death.
Faux Affably Evil: Gus wears the mask of a mild-mannered and impeccably polite businessman, but in reality he's a ruthless drug lord with a serious sadistic streak. He only rarely breaks his facade. By the final season, Walter has become this himself.
Felony Misdemeanor: The juxtaposition with meth and other class A drugs only makes Skyler's horror at Walt smoking pot look even more naive. On the other hand, that could be the point - emphasizing the rift between her own and her husband's worlds.
Feet-First Introduction: Lydia gets quite a few of these. In "Buried," she's shown walking around a barren, grimy meth lab in a skirt and heels, showing how out of place and uncomfortable she is.
Fire-Forged Friends: Walt and Jesse start off quite rocky, and they come to blows several times. However, they eventually build a father-son relationship, with each committing murder to protect the other on several occasions. Their relationship seems to fall apart by the end of the series, but they share a silent, respectful goodbye right in the end.
Five-Second Foreshadowing: Gus realizes Hector's plan about a half-second before it blows up in his face.
Flashforward: Used extensively:
The Cold Open for the season 5 premiere is a flash forward to one year to the future. "Blood Money", the Season 5 "mid-season premiere", also has a flash forward to the same day.
The pilot opens with the immediate aftermath of Walter killing Emilio and (almost) Krazy-8, and the rest of the episode is a How We Got Here.
Four episodes in season 2 open with flash-forwards to the end of the season.
Flat Character:
This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Walt Jr. loves breakfast. Joking aside, there really is very little else to his characterization aside from being afflicted with cerebral palsy.
This may also stem from being Demoted to Extra in Season 4. The show operates on an extremely short timeline with filming being painstakingly slow. More than a year went between the filming of Seasons 3 and 4, despite only about six months passing since the start of the series. When RJ Mitte first began filming scenes as Walter Junior, he was the same age as the character — a high school sophomore barely learning to drive. By the time filming began for Season 4, he was 19 and looked it, so he appeared in considerably fewer scenes. Storylines such as Junior having difficulty dealing with his parents' divorce also skidded to a halt. Lampshaded partially in an episode when Walter remarks with awe that his son drinks black coffee now and has seemingly become a man overnight.
By extension, Louis seems to exist solely for the purpose of having Walt Jr. out of the house for certain scenes.
Flaw Exploitation:
Walt wins by exploiting Gus' one flaw: the man's hatred of the Salamancas.
Lydia's routine of meeting associates at the same table in the same coffee shop (and adding Stevia to her drink) proves her undoing. Walt puts ricin in the Stevia packet at her table.
Flipping the Bird: When Walt sees that Gus has installed surveillance cameras in the lab, he flips off one of them.
Foil:
Hank is this to Walt. They each rise in power on opposite sides of the law and often tackle the same enemies, such as Tuco and Fring. Terrible experiences change both men, but while Walt becomes even more consumed by pride and turns into a ruthless criminal, Hank manages to subdue his Jerkass tendencies, becoming more humble and an even better cop.
Also, Gomez to Hank. Gomie's ideas are almost never right.
Walt and Jesse, complete with their character development going in two opposite directions. Walt is introduced as a straight-laced law-abiding family man, who only turns to the drug trade to provide for his family, but becomes crueler and more ruthless over the course of the series, and starts building his meth empire for its own sake. Jesse is introduced as a crude, Book Dumb, career criminal, but as the series goes on he's revealed to be a genuinely sensitive soul, who becomes uncomfortable with the things he has to do in the drug trade and wants out.
Jesse and Todd. Both are Walt's younger assistants. Jesse is foul-mouthed and short-tempered, but has a good heart underneath it all, particularly towards children, whereas Todd is polite and professional, but a sociopath who thinks nothing of shooting a young boy to death.
Food Porn:
A rare non-food example. The meth cooking scenes play out in loving, delectable detail that apparently hits home for bakers.
Played straight with the Pollos Hermanos commercial. It will probably make you wish the restaurant was real.
Foot-Dragging Divorcee: Skyler threatens to tell the police about Walt's uh...drug problem if he doesn't sign the paperwork, which he refuses to do.
Foregone Conclusion: The use of Flash Forwards in some opening scenes means that the audience knows ahead of time some of the things that will happen during the show. Jesse is seen soaking the White family's living room in gasoline in "Confessions" but the Flash Forward in "Blood Money" shows Walt returning to the house. Although it may be abandoned and in disrepair, it hasn't been burned down.
Foreign Remake: MetAsTasis, set in Colombia, will follow the misadventures of Walter Blanco, his wife Cielo, assistant Jose Rosas, and narcotics agent brother-in-law Henry Navarro, but without the iconic motor home (a refurbished white and blue school bus is used instead) because "motor homes aren't common in Colombia".
Foreshadowing:
Walt is told by the doctor when he receives his cancer diagnosis on his birthday, that in the best case scenario, he has only two years to live. Walt dies exactly two years later, just not by cancer.
Hank takes Walter Jr to a SRO to try and scare him straight about marijuana, and it sounds like something out of the worst after-school special ever, with all his bullshit about gateway drugs. Only look at what's happened to Walter over the last five seasons and ask yourself, "What did Hank say about gateway crimes again? How they ruin your lives?"
Walt refuses the Schwartzes' offer to pay for his cancer treatment, due to his pride about accepting charity and his unresolved issues regarding Gretchen and Grey Matter. In an example of Irony, this is how Walt finally gets his remaining $9 million to his family, by threatening the Schwartzes into donating it to them in an act of charity, although unknown to everyone but them they'll be using Walt's drug money.
Several Cold Opens in season 2 reveal progressively more of a mysterious crime scene, the circumstances of which are not revealed until the finale. Moreover, the titles of the episodes spell out the impending disaster: "737"/"Down"/"Over"/"ABQ". Plus, the teddy bear in the plane crash also foreshadows Gus's death.
A lot of the chemistry classes in the first season, like the one about explosions. Walt's lecture on chirality doesn't appear to have any relevance on anything later in the episode until you remember that This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.methamphetamine is a chiral molecule.
In "Over", Jesse wants to bring Jane breakfast in bed, but she walks on him in the kitchen. He says "You weren't supposed to wake up", and she responds "Ever, or...?" She eventually dies in her sleep.
You can tell Tio wants Gus dead early in their confrontations, but it doesn't appear to mean much as Tio can't do anything. Come the Season 4 finale, however, he finally gets his revenge... and sorts out Walt's problems at the same time.
Hank's condition in "One Minute" before he kills Marco is exactly like the time he's injured in 'Ozymandias'. Sadly, this time he didn't survive.
In the season 2 premiere, you see Skyler looking fondly of old photos of her and Ted after she and Walt start having marriage troubles. Ted isn't even introduced at that point and doesn't appear till 6 episodes after.
Madrigal Electromotive GmbH, a faceless international conglomerate, was first mentioned significantly in Season 4, when it is revealed that the company owns the industrial laundry that houses the superlab. The company was shown to own Los Pollos Hermanos in the fine print of a television ad in Season 3. The company's full role was only revealed in Season 5.
At the beginning of "Peekaboo" we see Skinny Pete stomp out a beetle. Later, Spooge's head gets crushed by an ATM. Both were done without second thoughts and the same aloof amount of ease.
Season five starts with a flashforward, giving a tantalizing glimpse of how the series will end.
Gus once said Walt, "A man provides. Even though he is not appreciated." Walt manages to win in his original goal, providing money to his family, when he becomes a nation-wide most wanted, with his family disowning him.
In a fit of anger, Jesse calls Todd "Ricky Hitler". Todd's uncle has prison connections in the Aryan Brotherhood.
Twice in "Phoenix". First Jane tells Jesse to roll over on his side after shooting up in case he vomits ("Lie on your side, or you might choke"), and Walter does the same thing for his infant daughter. When Walt tries to shake Jesse awake at the end of the episode to talk to him, Jane rolls over on her back, and a few minutes later throws up and starts choking.
At the beginning of season 2, Jesse tries to convince Walt to sacrifice his life for him, since he's going to die of cancer anyway. Fast-forward to "Felina," in which Walt is fatally wounded after pushing Jesse to the ground to spare him from being hit by the rigged machine gun.
Early in season 5, Skyler tells Walt she doesn't want her kids living in a household where people being murdered is brushed off with "shit happens." Fast forward a couple of episodes later, and Todd says "shit happens" after murdering a kid.
In "Blood Money", Badger's Star Trek script may foreshadow some of the events of the final season. Badger claims that the crew of the Enterprise are having a pie eating contest, and that it is down to just three: Kirk (Hank), Spock (Walter) and Chekhov (Jack). Kirk is the first to leave, foreshadowing Hank's death in "Ozymandias". Chekhov has Scotty (Todd) helping him, but when Uhura (Lydia) walks in, Scotty accidentally gets Chekhov killed, leaving Spock as the winner. If Todd hadn't become attracted to Lydia, Walter likely wouldn't have killed Jack and his gang, as they had to keep Jesse alive in order to keep making the meth, prompting Walt to go after them.
Ted stumbles slightly over his rug, which he takes the time to go back and smooth out before going to answer the door for Skyler. Later, Huell and Kuby come to force him to sign a check for the IRS. Guess what Ted trips over when he tries to make his escape?
In Season 4, Andrea tells Jesse that she'll "die first" before letting anything happen to her son Brock. Fast-forward to "Granite State," and Todd shoots her in the head. Fortunately, Brock does survive the series.
Walt ominously mentions Victor while disregarding Mike's request for hazard-paying Gus's men. Walt not only kills Mike regarding Gus' men, but his downfall can also be attributed to Walt's words, "He flew too close to the sun, and got his throat cut".
Jesse establishes Walt as a credible threat and as one to never be underestimated, when he states that 'Seriously guys, what you guys are expecting, the exact opposite is going to happen'. Hank, Gomez and Jesse successfully arrest Walt, only for Walt's Nazi backup to arrive, kill Hank and Gomez and imprison Jesse. Walt arrived back in Todd's life, where he planned with Lydia to Mercy Kill Walt. Well, Todd was killed along with his uncle and his crew, and Lydia herself was poisoned with ricin when Walt made his final entry. Jesse expected to cook one more batch of meth, only for Walt to arrive back in his life, and Jesse suddenly going free, as all his captors are dead.
For Want of a Nail: If only Walt hadn't left that copy of Leaves of Grass lying around in the bathroom.
And as This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Word of God confirms, If only Walt didn't leave Grey Matter regarding his jealousy regarding Gretchen's wealth...
Frame-Up: In "Confessions," Walt makes a tape that paints Hank as the Lawman Gone Bad mastermind behind everything he did, and himself as a coerced stooge. It won't get him off anything, but the threat of Taking You with Me is clear.
Freeze-Frame Bonus:
In "Blood Money" when Hank is looking through all the case files related to Heisenberg, when he is looking at the photos of Combo's dead body, if you look to the left you see a picture of him as a little kid. About 7-9 years old, chubby and has a mullet.
In "Abiquiu," when Walt enters Gus's home, there are children's toys in his living room, suggesting Gus wanted to play up a family-man persona to Walt.
Freudian Trio: Walt, Jesse, and Mike in Season 5A. Sure enough, the first time Walt and Mike are alone without Jesse to mediate, Walt kills Mike.
From Bad to Worse: This is the show's M.O. In "Four Days Out," they're in the middle of the desert and drain the RV's battery as their generator runs out of gas. Then the generator catches fire and they lose the last of their water and destroy the generator putting it out. Then their phones die. Then they trickle-charge the battery by hand-cranking the generator and the RV starts! And immediately dies. Then they collect bits and pieces of this and that and Walt puts together a makeshift battery to jump the RV...and the RV finally starts.
This is also Walt's situation in the entire show, but most importantly, Season 5B.
From Nobody to Nightmare: Played unnervingly straight. There is no reason for Walt to be a nobody in the beginning. He's highly talented, yet he's in a dead-end high school teaching job that he hates, which inspires him to become the nightmare.
Frozen Dinner of Loneliness: In one episode Walt is shown eating a TV dinner at the table with Skylar after he has been estranged from her.
Fun with Acronyms: Unconfirmed but a nice coincidence: "Felina" can be broken down into Fe (Iron) Li (Lithium) and Na (Sodium) — or as the internet interpreted it, "blood, meth, and tears".note 
Gambit Roulette:
Walt poisoned Brock with a not-quite lethal poison and stole the ricin cigarette from Jesse, hoping that Jesse would realize he was poisoned, assume Walt did it and come after him. Then he had to convince Jesse that Gus had planned to the whole thing, right up to Jesse holding a gun to his head. It worked (almost) perfectly, but relied on a lot of luck.
Gus' wholesale poisoning of the cartel in "Salud" also depended on a lot of luck (see One Dose Fits All below).
The way Walt takes out the Aryan Brotherhood depended on them a.) allowing him to position the car where he wanted, b.) not searching the trunk, c.) putting his keychain somewhere he could get a hold of it, d.) all gathering in the same room at the same time. Jesse wasn't kidding when he lampshades that Walt is "luckier than you."
The Gambling Addict: How Skyler eventually explains Walt's money to her family.
Games of the Elderly: In S4E13, Walt pays a visit to Hector in his retirement home, where he is sitting near a table of other elders playing bingo. The scene opens with some of the caller's dialogue to establish the tone.
Generic Graffiti: "HEISENBERG" in the mid-fifth-season premiere.
Genius Bruiser: Hank initially comes off as tough, over-bearing cop whose main skills are kicking down doors and surviving gun battles. As time goes on, however, he reveals himself to be a pretty brilliant investigator. He deduces Gus's operation from his hospital bed, when no one else suspected a thing.
Genre Shift: From very dark Black Comedy to Shakespearean-style Tragedy. Not that the Bard was any stranger to using this particular shift, himself, of course.
Germanic Efficiency: Madrigal Elektromotiv GmbHnote .
Getting High on Their Own Supply: A lot of problems in the show are caused by Jesse getting high, though not solely on the meth he cooks personally.
Get Out!: Skyler pulls this on Walt in “Ozymandias” after she figures out that Hank is dead. When Walt doesn’t comply, she tries to kill him.
The Ghost. We never see Walt's mother, though she does get mentioned a few times.
Gilligan Cut (Or perhaps a Vince Gilligan Cut):
After Marie's bet with Hank over whether he can still get erect after his injuries and surgery.
In the season 4 finale, when Marie forbids Hank to leave the house and go to the DEA after they receive a tip about an assassination planned on him. Cue Hank in the DEA. Also doubles as an ironic echo for the previous situation.
Glad-to-Be-Alive Sex:
In the first episode, Walt with Skyler after just escaping two drug dealers who were about to kill him and a fire that one of them set accidentally. A few more times in later episodes as well.
Subverted in the season 2 premiere, Walt returns home from a traumatic ordeal and needs some sexual healing from his wife. His abrupt and unwelcome advances escalate into a Near-Rape Experience.
Gone Horribly Right:
Walter White just wanted to make some cash to play his medical bills and leave some left over for his family. By "Gliding Over All," he made more than enough.
A desperate man with sympathetic medical problems and not much savvy looked like an ideal get-rich-quick opportunity with a limited shelf life and blowback to Saul Goodman. He helped create Heisenberg. That went so well.
Gus wanted to severely antagonize Hector as a poor cripple stuck in Fate Worse than Death. His efforts literally blew up in the face.
Gorn: Not every episode, but at least once or twice a season something mind-blowingly gruesome happens.
Several dissolved corpses over the course of the show.
The decapitated-head-turtle-bombing in "Negro y Azul" results in quite a lot of carnage.
In "Box Cutter," Gus slices open a neck with one.
Gus Fring's death, where one side of his face is blown down to the skull by a bomb.
Mike's crew are stabbed dozens of times, with the last one doused with flammable liquid and burned.
Grievous Bottley Harm: Jesse's trying to get his money back from the junkies that ripped off Skinny Pete when the woman hits him in the head with a liquor bottle. It averts Soft Glass while she's at it.
Hair-Trigger Explosive: Walt throws a handful of mercury fulminate on the ground and it explodes, causing major damage to the room.
Handshake Refusal: When Skinny Pete introduces Jesse to Tuco, Pete tries to go for a fist bump. Tuco doesn't oblige.
Handshake Substitute: Fist bumps are occasionally seen by the younger set.
Heel Realization:
Jesse comes to this in Season 3 premiere "No Mas" after getting out of rehab, following Jane's death, which came after he tempted her into relapsing.
Jesse: I'm the bad guy.
Walt has his own by "Felina", when he finally admits to Skyler that he cooked for his own gratification rather than for the good of the family, saying, "I did it for me. I liked it. I was good at it. And I was really... I was alive."
He Knows Too Much: Deconstructed. Walt thinks he's covering his tracks by killing Mike and his entire team so that nobody can trace his crimes back to him. The problem is, in order to pull off this bloodbath he has to get in bed with Todd's Uncle Jack and his gang, who turn out to be more of a liability than the loyal crew Mike was paying huge amounts of hush money.
He Who Fights Monsters: Season 4's finale has Walt pulling off a Batman Gambit and finally killing Gus. Part of that plan happens to involve poisoning an innocent child (albeit non-lethally) to manipulate Jesse. Things only go downhill from there.
Healthcare Motivation: Walt, at first.
Heävy Mëtal Ümlaut: A minisode reveals that Jesse's old band was named TwaüghtHammër.
The Hero Dies: Both Walt (the show's Villain Protagonist) and Hank (the show's Hero Antagonist) are dead by the end of the series.
The Hero's Birthday: The show starts on Walt's 50th birthday (when he gets the news that he has cancer) and ends on his 52nd birthday, with his death.
Heroes Act, Villains Hinder: The show is mainly about the chaos caused by its hero, Walter White. Most of Walt's major enemies (the only exception being Hank in Season 5) are decidedly worse people than him and thus can properly be called villains, but their involvement in the plot is still a result of his actions.
Heroic Blue Screen of Death:
Jesse when he finds Jane dead. He has to be slapped out of it by Mike who wants him to tell police that he "woke up, he found her, that's all [he] know[s]."
Jesse in Season 4 premiere "Box Cutter", too shaken up to even flee the crime scene.
Walt at the end of "Crawl Space" after Skyler tells him she gave the money they needed to escape Gus to Ted Beneke.
Hank in "Blood Money." The realization that Walt is Heisenberg brings back his panic attacks with a vengeance. By the time Walt confronts him later in the episode, Hank is clearly a distraught, shaken man.
Jesse is basically a walking BSoD throughout "Buried." Given all he's been through up to that point, it's hardly a surprise, too.
"Ozymandias"
Walt gets one when he witnesses Jack kill Hank despite all he does to save him.. So does Marie when she finds out about it.
Walt Jr. gets one when Skyler and Marie confess everything about the meth-making activities
Skyler's occurs when Walt kidnaps Holly and flees.
Hidden Depths:
Hank in Season 3.
Jesse's soft-heartedness is also unexpected for Walt as well as the audience.
The flashback to Gus' past, showing that he has a reason for his cold and calculating personality.
Gale and Walt make excellent coffee, which makes the latter react why they're still making meth.
Old Joe, the trashy junkyard owner, turns out to actually have an impressive knowledge of the law.
Skyler takes to money-laundering like a duck to water. But then the water turns to blood and she realises how deep a moral hole she's in.
"Hazard Pay" reveals that Skinny Pete, the crusty meth dealer and drug addict, is a gifted pianist.
Hidden in Plain Sight: Gus and Walt both do this. At one point Walt even jokingly confesses to Hank.
Hitman with a Heart: Mike Ehrmantraut is more than happy to murder just about anyone, but always makes time to take care of his granddaughter.
Hollywood Acid: Hydrofluoric acid, used twice in the series to dispose of bodies by Walt and Jesse. In the series, hydrofluoric acid is highly corrosive and will dissolve a human body completely. In reality... not so much... (see Hollywood Science below).
Hollywood Magnetism: Mostly averted by the magnet used in The Caper. Walt points out that the frame of his glasses and his wedding ring are aluminium and gold, respectively, and the crew have to add a second row of batteries to get enough amperage to get through the wall of the evidence room.
Hollywood Science: Minimal but present.
Hydrofluoric acid will kill you dead if you breathe the gas it produces or get any on your skin... eventually. Working safely with concentrated hydrofluoric acid in real life requires a full body suit, as opposed to casually wearing aprons and masks. In other words, no trained chemist in his right mind would be hanging around waiting for the bottom to fall out of the bathtub, much less look up into the hole from which blobs of liquefied, HF-contaminated dead body are probably still dripping; without extensive hazmat training and equipment, the proper procedure is to run away and call a professional hazmat team. The less lethal sodium hydroxide would work much better at dissolving the body without endangering other materials. It would still leave bones to be dealt with, though (HF would be pretty effective at this point).
Mercury (II) fulminate is ridiculously dangerous. Walt is meant to be a badass crystallographer, but even assuming he could make it into crystals and somehow not accidentally cause a reaction and somehow make it potent enough to wreak that much havoc (the show exaggerated the explosion a little), he'd still be dealing with lungfuls of toxic dust (mercury salts). Of course, he may not have cared about that, given that he already had lung cancer, and believed himself to be dead soon.
Walt suggesting he's gonna make phenylacetone in a tube furnace like it's the most natural thing in the world. It isn't. However, this is in reference to Uncle Fester's Guide to Making Amphetamine, which advocates the use of this process as it evades several legal restrictions on ingredients and has instructions to building your own furnace. Walt is enough of a badass chemist to know how to do this without reference material.
Honest Corporate Executive: Gus Fring's public image. It's totally wrong, but it is his public image, up until the day he dies.
Honest John's Dealership: Saying Saul Goodman might represent this trope is like suggesting that water could, perhaps, be slightly damp. One look tells you everything you need to know.
Hope Spot:
Inverted with Gus Fring's death. After Hector detonates himself, Gus Fring walks out of the gutted room, seemingly fine... and the viewer's stomachs drop as they think the plan failed. Then the camera pans to show the half of Gus's face that isn't there.
Walt, in "Gliding Over All". After constantly living under the threat of death from various sources as well as increasing law enforcement scrutiny and a growing estrangement from his family, he finally seems to be free: Everyone who wanted him dead has been eliminated; he has killed everyone who would link him to the meth business; he has made enough money for several lifetimes, as well as securing means to launder said money; He has retired from cooking meth, opening the door to reconcile with Skyler. Too bad he left the last piece of evidence somewhere Hank could find it....
For Hank, Jesse and Gomez and perhaps even Walt himself in the events of "To'hajiilee" and "Ozymandias". After successfully baiting Walt to get to his money, the trio corner him and arrest him, and Hank even personally calls Marie to inform they got Walt. 5 minutes later, Walt's 'backup' arrives, armed to the teeth, and corner Hank and Gomez. The resulting shootout leaves Gomez dead, Hank seriously injured, and Jesse hiding below Walt's car. Walt negotiates in vain to save Hank, who is killed by Jack soon after, and Jesse is captured beneath Walt's car and Made a Slave to Jack's gang. Oh, and it is at this point, Walt, livid with Jesse's role in snitching against him, which led to the shootout in the first place, decides to break the truth about Jane's death. The trio went from utterly victorious to dead and ruined. And after that...
After realizing that Skyler and Walt Jr. had truly turned against him, Walt proceeds to kidnap the one family member he didn't believe could turn against him because she supposedly didn't know anything—his infant daughter Holly. But on the road, Walt sadly discovered that he was wrong when she started crying for "Mama." This made him realize he had gone too far. And it was This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.still a terrible thing to do, even if it didn't turn out to be in vain and Holly hadn't turned against him. And still after that...
In "Granite State", Jesse nearly escapes the Aryan compound, after fooling Todd, not noticing the camera on the boundary. During his moment of escape, he is captured again. Todd and Jack drive Jesse to Andrea's house, where Todd lures her out on pretext of Jesse's information. When Andrea is in clear view of Jesse, he panics as he tries desperately to save her. Todd shoots her quickly, with Jack warning Jesse another such attempt will lead to Brock's death. Jesse's breakdown This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.really seals the deal.
How We Got Here:
The episodes "Pilot", "Crazy Handful of Nothin'", "Grilled", "Breakage", "ABQ", and "Bug".
The entire second season is the journey towards a grim future which was teased at the start of several episodes, including the season's premiere. Going beyond In Medias Res, the events of these flash-forwards take place between the Season 2 finale and the Season 3 premiere.
"Live Free or Die", the first episode of the final season, starts with a glimpse to a year ahead (and yet another Ironic Birthday) showing a now more rugged-looking Walt travelling under a fake identity and purchasing an M60 Machine Gun to kill the Aryan Brotherhood and rescue Jesse.
"Blood Money", the premiere episode of the second half of Season 5 starts off after the M60 purchase showing Walt going back home, which after the events of the last year has now been closed off and abandoned.
Humans Are Bastards: Rare are characters who aren’t heavily flawed or absolute scumbags. Heck, the thesis of the show is that a decent man can be easily corrupted when given the opportunity.
Humiliation Conga: Several dramatic ones.
Jesse suffers one in "Down", which leaves him broke and homeless, with no one to help him, covered in sewage water and disinfectant and eventually crying himself to sleep while wearing a gas mask on the floor of the RV.
Season 4 is one long one for Walt.
Season 5's first half is one for Mike up until his death.
Walt himself suffers a nasty one in Season 5. His cancer returns, his brother-in-law is killed in front of him, the majority of his money is stolen, the world finds out who he is and he's forced to go on the run, his own wife attacks him, and it looks like he'll be forced to live out his final days in a freezing shack in the middle of nowhere. Then, just when it looks like it can't get any worse, his son disowns him and he overhears his colleagues - who are now far more successful than him - badmouthing him on national TV. The Grand Finale gives him a chance to make a comeback.
Hurricane of Euphemisms: At one point Jesse talks about all the "mad cheddar" they're going to make. After Walt just stares at him, he continues "Cheddar, Mr. White. Fat stacks, dead presidents, cash money."
I Am the Noun: Walt's Badass Boast to Skyler. "I am the danger. [...] I am the one who knocks!"
I Know You Know I Know: Hank and Walt play this game for a bit after Hank finds out Walt's Heisenberg. But it ends pretty quickly after Walt confronts Hank about the tracker on his car.
I Need a Freaking Drink:
At the baby shower, Hank turns to Walt and asks if he has anything stronger than beer.
Then at the party celebrating Walt's remission, Walt goes to drink with Hank and then starts giving Walt Jr shots.
Idiosyncratic Episode Naming:
Several season 2 episodes clue the viewer in on the initially out-of-the-blue disaster which closes the season.
Several episodes such as "Negro Y Azul", "No Más" and "Salud" among others have titles in Spanish.
Similarly, "Mandala" is a Sanskrit word.
Season 3 has a lot of episode titles based on things that come into play in the last five minutes of the episode - "Green Light," "I.F.T", ("I fucked Ted") "One Minute," and "Sunset," for example.
Season 4 has had the habit of naming a lot of its episodes after objects that play into that episode's story to some degree: "Box Cutter", "Thirty-Eight Snub", "Shotgun", "Bug," "Crawl Space" and "Face Off"
Ignored Epiphany: In "Granite State," Walter, after hearing that his son flat-out refuses his drug money and wishes him to die, calls the DEA to surrender and accept his fate. While he waits for the cops, however, he sees Elliot and Gretchen disowning their association to Walt on TV, specifically saying that Walt has never done anything for Gray Matter except giving the company its name. At that point, Breaking Bad's theme song kicks in, pride retakes control of Walt, and he vanishes again as Heisenberg.
Imperial Stormtrooper Marksmanship Academy: "To'hajiilee" ends with Hank and Gomez up against the Aryans, the latter armed with assault rifles and even an automatic shotgun. Ultimately subverted in "Ozymandias" when it turns out that the bulletproof vest-wearing Gomez is killed (because even the best vest will eventually fail) and Hank was hit in the leg. Played with further when you look at the cars. Hank's is a perforated wreck, meaning the Aryans' More Dakka did land quite a few hits, but their own cars are pristine and none of the Neo-Nazis themselves are even injured despite Gomez having blasted away at them with a shotgun at very close range.
Implied Death Threat: "Blood Money" has Walt deliver one: "If you don’t know who I am, maybe your best course of action is to tread lightly." However, the threat is empty; as it's shown later, Walt would rather go to prison than to kill Hank.
I'm Melting!: Jesse is tasked with dissolving a body in acid. Walt advises him to use a plastic tote, but Jesse ignores this and uses his own upstairs bathtub. After some time, the body is quite effectively melted... ...along with the tub, the floor around the tub, the downstairs ceiling below the tub, and even a little of the floor below that.
Incurable Cough of Death:
Walt's coughing in the pilot is a sign of his cancer.
Subverted; in the episode where he starts coughing up blood, he panics, but it turns out that his cancer is going into remission and that was just a relatively minor secondary condition.
Played straight again in season five; when his cancer comes back, he starts coughing again.
Indy Ploy: Walt's "thinking on his feet" attempts to obscure the truth about his second life. Much of it in the first season revolves around making up lies to tell his wife. She gets wise after a while. He comes up with more dramatic ones to throw off Hank. In "Better Call Saul," he drives up in front of him and to say hello with the actual purpose being to use his car to obscure Hank's view while Jesse redirects Badger to the right park bench for the fake Heisenberg bust. In season three, he pulls some spectacular shit out of his ass to get Hank away from the RV in the salvage yard. In the fourth season, he gets into an auto accident to prevent Hank from scoping out the laundry.
In-Joke: In the pilot, Hank's irresponsible and unsafe demonstration of the .40 caliber Glock 22, followed by his interview on Channel 3, is a reference to this video.
Insistent Terminology: Hank collects "minerals," not "rocks."
Hank: This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Jesus Christ, Marie.
Inspector Javert: Hank increasingly becomes this as he chases Heisenberg and his blue meth.
Inside Job:
Walter steals hard-to-get equipment and chemicals from his high school to kick-start his meth-cooking operation. The fact that there's no sign of forced entry immediately tips off Hank that it was an inside job.
For a short time, Jesse skims some of the excess product he and Walt produce for Gus Fring to sell on his own.
It comes out that Gus Fring's operation is supplied with methylamine by Lydia, who facilitates its theft from her employer, Madrigal.
Later, Lydia uses her inside knowledge of Madrigal's freight shipments to tip Walt's crew off that a train hauling a tanker car full of methylamine will be vulnerable while passing through a "dead zone" with no cell coverage.
Inspirational Insult: In an early episode, Jesse finds an old test paper marked by Walt, on which he's written "Ridiculous - apply yourself." Jesse takes the advice and applies himself to making meth.
Insufferable Genius:
Walt cooks the best meth, and he's not afraid to remind people of it.
The cartel's meth cook Benicio Fuentes also counts as this. He repeatedly criticizes Jesse, but even the Don points out that Jesse still cooks better meth than he does, with all of his college degrees.
Interface Spoiler: Defied by Netflix. The last six episodes of the show are given descriptions that get even vaguer as they go, from "Confessions"' description of, "Jesse decides to make a change, while Walt and Skyler deal with an unexpected demand," to "Felina"'s simple statement of, "The award-winning series comes to a dramatic conclusion in the series finale."
Internal Reveal:
Walter watching Jane die in season 2. The threat of that truth being revealed added tension to a lot of the many disputes Walt and Jesse got into.
Walt poisoning Brock was another case, though it was not kept secret for as long.
Walt killing Mike is also set up like this, however both Jesse and Saul quickly deduce that Walt killed him.
In Vino Veritas:
Walt lets it slip that he has a second cell phone whilst under the influence of anesthetics prior to his cancer surgery, thus beginning the unraveling of his web of lies.
Walt also lets his pride get the better of him while drunk and shoots down Hank's notion that Gale is Heisenberg.
After taking prescription pain medication, Walt calls his son by Jesse's name, giving away that he's still in contact with him.
Interrupted Intimacy: In In Season 4, Episode 5, Skyler and Walt have sex to celebrate their signing of the papers which finalize their purchase of A1A carwash from Bogdan Wolynetz and abruptly end their sexual intercourse when Walter Jr enters the house - Walt Sr was THIS CLOSE to being caught naked by his son. Walt Jr. does realize what is going on though, and leaves the scene in disgust.
Invulnerable Knuckles: Averted. Whenever a character punches something, be it an object or a person, their knuckles will show the damage.
Ironic Birthday: Walt has just terrible luck with birthdays:
In the very first episode, he comes home from the hospital on his 50th birthday, having just learned that he has terminal cancer, to find a surprise party in his living room.
Season five episode "51" features his next birthday (with a lampshade hung on how long a year it's been), celebrated for Walt Jr's sake despite the fact that he and Skyler are barely on speaking terms. He actually requests a "surprise" party along the lines of his last one, in an attempt to persuade Skyler that life is back to normal. Instead he gets a simple dinner with Hank and Marie during which Skyler tries to drown herself.
The Cold Open to season five shows his 52nd birthday in a flash-forward, "celebrated" alone in a diner, using a new identity.
Iron Butt Monkey: Walt's Pontiac Aztek. While portrayed as an Alleged Car early in the series, it withstood an extraordinary amount of abuse, multiple crashes, and saved both Walt and Jesse's asses innumerable times. Despite this, Walt eventually unceremoniously sells it to his mechanic for $50 so he can get something cooler.
Ironic Echo: Quite a few.
After Skyler confronts Jesse and almost catches him moving Emilio's body, he angrily tells Walt, "good job on wearing the pants in the family." Later, when Jane gets Walt to give Jesse the money owed to him, Walt says, "nice job wearing the pants."
Saul's speech to Walt about his looming divorce in S3E2, "Caballo Sin Nombre", is very reminiscent of Walt's address to the students after the plane crash in S3E1, "No Más."
Walt's speech to Skyler in the second episode of season 5 about how doing bad things for the sake of family is justifiable is highly reminiscent of a similar speech given to the twins by Tio Salamanca in a flashback in season 3. Given the general audience reaction to the Salamancas, it's a pretty chilling indication of the direction in which Walt is headed.
In "Cornered", Walt says to Skyler: "I am not in danger, Skyler. I am the danger." In "Fifty-One", he tells her: "I can promise you that Gus Fring is dead. And he was the threat. He was the danger." Skyler responds, "I thought you were the danger."
Todd's explanation of his motives repeats Walt's argument to Gus about Gale nearly word-for-word.
In "Fifty-One", Skyler says to Walt: "I will not have my children living in a house where dealing drugs and hurting people and killing people is shrugged off as ‘shit happens'!" In "Buyout", after Todd kills a child witness and he, Jesse, Walt and Mike dispose of the body, he tells Jesse: "Man, shit happens, huh?" Jesse punches him in the face.
Walt keeping up a façade as an overly friendly staffmember when Lydia comes to the car wash to confront him in season 5, often refusing to answer her questions and treating her like just another customer - the exact same approach Gus Fring used on him whenever he came to Los Pollos Hermanos.
Irony:
The final season is packed with this. After sacrificing so much over the story arc to raise hospital and inheritance money, Walt ends up losing absolutely everything in the process. The penultimate episode has him sitting alone in the middle of nowhere, suffering from cancer again, and down to his last barrel of cash he can neither spend nor give to his family.
Also, Walt has taken a great many drug dealers off the streets during his tenure as a drug cooker and later drug kingpin. Krazy-8, Tuco, Gus, Declan, Jack and the Nazis, Lydia. Possibly also the Mexican cartel Gus was part of, if Walt can be considered instrumental to their extermination. Walt did a better job of getting drugs off the street than Hank.
Irrevocable Order: A variation in "To'hajiilee"; thinking that Jesse has lured him to a remote location in order to kill him and take his money, Walt calls Uncle Jack and gives him the co-ordinates and the green light to kill Jesse. When he realises that it's Hank come to arrest him, he calls Jack to tell him not to come — but the gang come anyway. There's actually a reason for it: Jack's gang knew that something was at this particular spot because Walt gave the exact geographical coordinates as opposed to some vague description of the location - in this case, his money.
It Gets Easier: Walt agonizes over his first hands-on kill for almost an entire episode, and breaks down into tears when he finally does it. As the show goes on, he becomes less and less averse to using lethal violence to achieve his goals. Walt comes out and admits it to Skyler when she's freaking out about her actions indirectly getting Ted paralysed and almost killed.
It's for a Book: When Skyler thinks that Walt is smoking pot, she asks Marie about how could it affect someone, claiming that it's for a short story she's writing. Marie doesn't fall for it, but she thinks it's Walt Jr. who is smoking pot.
It's Probably Nothing: When Todd brings up his prison connections, Walt asks Mike if that would be a problem. Mike, after having checked Todd’s background previously, responds it isn’t.
It Will Never Catch On: When Gus and his brotherly friend pitch the idea of mass producing meth to a cartel don in Mexico in a flashback to the 1980s, the don and his associates laugh it off.
Jerk with a Heart of Gold:
Walter's brother-in-law, Hank, is a loud, lewd and frequently obnoxious DEA agent. This is partly due to the culture of the police department and partly due to being a Sad Clown. He's a decent man underneath the bluster.
Jesse is an abrasive, thickheaded junkie, but underneath it all he's far gentler than Walt.
Jitter Cam: The show is shot mostly on handheld cameras, with the camera operators told to be as still as possible when filming, which results in minor but noticeable jitter.
Jumping Off the Slippery Slope:
While Skyler compromises her morals throughout the series because of her relationship with Walt, when she tells Walt to kill Jesse, she goes straight from money laundering and blackmail to proposing murder.
Since the entire show revolves around Walt's journey from "Mr. Chips to Scarface" there are several moments that could qualify for him:
His decision to cook meth in the first place in the pilot.
Killing Krazy-8 in "...And the Bag's in the River".
Allowing Jane to choke to death on her own vomit in "ABQ".
By the time he is poisoning Brock simply to manipulate Jesse into helping him against Gus as well as arranging for a bomb to go off in a retirement home in "Face Off" it's pretty clear he's well on his way down the slippery slope.
Justified Criminal: The main crux of the series, though pride is a big factor too, showing the justification really only exists in Walter's mind — he was offered charity early in the first season, and refused it. The show is a Deconstruction of this concept.
Karma Houdini Warranty/Laser-Guided Karma: This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Vince Gilligan has stated that one Central Theme of the series is that all actions have consequences. At some point everyone has to reap the results of all their decisions and actions, even if it takes many years — and they come either as gruesome (but deserved) deaths or being forced to live with the stigma of guilt. In the finale Jesse managed to survive because at that point he realized his colossal mistake in getting involved in the meth industry, and Saul realizes that even with an assumed identity he will never regain the prosperity he had with Walter.
Kick the Dog:
After Walt forces Bogdan to sell him the car wash in Season 4, he refuses to let Bogdan take anything with him as he leaves—not even the first dollar that he ever made, which he keeps framed on the wall of his office. As soon as Bogdan leaves, Walt shatters the glass frame, takes the dollar out, and spends it on the nearest soda machine. Although Bogdan's behavior puts some Kick the Son of a Bitch into the scene, this act of petty cruelty speaks volumes about how far Walt has fallen since the show's beginning.
Walt does this to Jesse in "Ozymandias" when he admits letting Jane die in her overdose.
The climax of season four which has Walt poison Brock in order to manipulate Jesse is presented as a new low for Walter's slide into villainy.
Killed Mid-Sentence:
Max in "Hermanos".
"Por favor, se lo—"
Hank in "Ozymandias".
"Do what you're gonna do—"
Jack in "Felina".
"You pull that trigger, you'll never—"
Kitschy Local Commercial: Saul Goodman's ads. "Better Call Saul!" Also when Walt is talking to Domingo he brings up the commercials that used to air for the furniture store Domingo's father owns.
Knows a Guy Who Knows a Guy: How Saul arranges a meeting between Walter White and Gus Fring. Becomes practically Saul's catchphrase as the series goes on and Walt and Jesse require the services of more and more shady characters. Walt even calls him out on it during the scene where they're waiting to be given new lives by Saul's 'clean slate' man; Walt asks for the names of hitmen to take out Jack and his gang, and Saul says he doesn't know any. Walt tells him that surely he knows someone who ALSO knows someone.
Saul: Let’s just say I know a guy who knows a guy... [beat] who knows another guy.
Knuckle Tattoos: One of Jack's men has a phrase tattooed across his knuckles, which can be best seen when he holds has hand across Skyler's mouth when Todd threatens her.
Lack of Empathy: Todd. The other members of his uncle's gang are vicious, nasty and aggressive — he's just a fairly amiable guy who seems to be entirely immune to guilt or empathy.
Last-Name Basis: Jesse only refers to Walter as anything other than "Mr. White" once in the entire series.
The Last of These Is Not Like the Others: In "Fly," Walt tellingly adds the birth of his daughter as an after-thought, seeming to place more importance on the first million he made as a reason to have not dropped dead.
Late-Arrival Spoiler: The teaser ad for Season 5 is the scene of Gus Fring's death.
Laughing Mad: Walt's reaction when Skyler tells him she gave Ted the $600,000 they needed to escape Gus, who said he would kill them all if he interfered in tipping off the DEA about the hit on Hank... which Saul had done on his orders mere minutes before.
Laser-Guided Karma: Most of the cast.
Bogdan is a Jerk with a Heart of Jerk who names a ridiculous price (well over 20x the actual value) when Skyler tries to buy the car wash. Then when he's desperate to sell because he thinks the EPA is about to shut him down due to a toxic waste leak, she lowers her original offer by almost 10%, explicitly saying she's doing so because she doesn't like him. When he hands the keys over to Walt, he makes a big point that he's selling the business "as is." He then goes to take his framed "first dollar"... and Walt reminds him he sold the business "as is." The instant Bogdan walks out, Walt smashes the frame, takes the dollar, and buys a soda with it.
At the end of the fourth season, Don Eladio, the head of the Mexican cartel dies at the exact spot where he ordered the death of Gus' partner. Extra points for Gus being the one to poison him, after making a deal with him over crystal meth (a substance he used to scoff at).
Ted, who after refusing to use the money Skyler gave him for her intended purpose (to avoid getting arrested for tax fraud), is visited by goons sent by Saul on Skyler's orders and forced into signing the check. When he tries to run, he slips on his rug and ends up paralyzed as a result of his injury..
This happens to Walt in "Ozymandias" in brutal fashion: Uncle Jack executes Hank and takes 70 of Walt's 80 million in meth profits, his family disowns him because of Hank's death and Walt Jr. discovering his father is Heisenberg, and Walt finally realizes how wrong his rationalizations were. At the end of the episode, he's forced to embrace his Heisenberg persona and flee Albuquerque with the help of Saul's identity-changer.
Since Lydia's debut episode, she was a Karma Houdini. However, in "Felina", Lydia finally gets what she deserves, when Walt's final battle begins with him poisoning her tea with the ricin he stole from Jesse. By the time Walt calls to tell her what happened, she's already too close to death to do anything about it.
Vanco, who spent most of his time in "Negro y Azul" making fun of Hank for not speaking Spanish (using the language barrier to get away with trash-talking to his fellow coworkers) and reacting in horror to Tortuga's head on the tortoise. When the explosives in the tortoise go off, Vanco's leg gets blown off below the knee.
Laser Sight: Walt intimidates Elliot and Gretchen by telling them he spent $200,000 hiring "the two best hitmen west of the Mississippi" to keep tabs on them until they go through with his demands — cue laser dots on their chests. Subverted when it turns out it was just Badger and Skinny Pete with laser pointers.
Last Episode Theme Reprise:
In the second last episode, as a build up to the Grand Finale, has Walter give the DEA his position; suddenly spurred on, the full theme song plays as the police raid the bar Walter called from, only to find his unfinished drink and tip.
The full theme also plays over the credits of the Series Finale.
Lawman Gone Bad:
Walt cooks up a false confession that hinges on framing Hank as one of these who manipulated his poor cash-strapped cancer-patient brother-in-law into cooking meth for him to sell through his criminal contacts, and he sends the tape to Hank as a threat. Even as he watches it, Hank can see it's a more plausible story than the truth.
Ex-cop turned hitman Mike qualifies too. He tells Walt about illegally threatening a suspect, the DEA agents who interrogate him imply that his career in law enforcement didn't end well, and Better Call Saul reveals that he not only took bribes, but also murdered the crooked cops who set up the death of his police officer son Matty.
Leaning on the Fourth Wall:
"High school teacher turned meth dealer, brother-in-law's in the DEA? That'd make one hell of a story..."
In season 5, Marie remarks that the time between Walt's 50th and 51st birthdays felt much longer than a year. It's been four and a half in real years.
In "Rabid Dog", a fifth season episode, Marie's shrink states that "There is no problem, no matter how difficult, painful or seeming unsolvable, that violence won't make worse." This is an episode where he is one of only two characters with speaking roles not to be planning to kill someone.
Walt himself echoes the "This'll make one hell of a story" line when he's impersonating a New York Times journalist in the finale.
Leave No Witnesses: A few times. In "Dead Freight," Mike points out that in his experience, "there are two kinds of heist; those where the guys get away with it, and those that leave witnesses." They eventually come up with a way to do the job without being seen by the train's crew, but they don't count on Innocent Bystanders.
Let's Get Dangerous!: A big draw of the show is watching the timid, suburban dad with a bit of a chip on his shoulder turn into a diabolical mastermind when his back is to the wall or he's just had enough.
Letting the Air Out of the Band: The scene with Badger and Jesse in "Gray Matter" ends with the background music doing this as Badger fails to outpace Jesse.
A Lighter Shade of Black: A common motif in the series, with Walt and Jesse as nicer drug lords than the people they generally oppose. However, by the final season it's clear that Walt has become about as evil as the rest of the industry.
Like Brother and Sister: Walt and Marie had this type of relationship for the majority of the series. She would confide in him Hank's problems, sometimes take his side against Skyler, let him decide for himself whether or not he wanted to get chemo when his cancer was first discovered and Walt in turn treated her well and did try to help Hank on her behalf. This however was up until Hank reveals what Walt's been up to throughout the series, wanting him to die and later calling Walt an "arrogant asshole" when she believes that he had Hank killed.
Literary Allusion Title:
"Gliding Over All", from Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass.
"Ozymandias", from Percy Bysshe Shelley's poem. It's about what happens when someone's reputation crumbles and only their name is left behind. A promo for the episode has Bryan Cranston reciting it over shots of the New Mexico desert.
"Felina" is a reference to Marty Robbins' song "El Paso", which is about a cowboy returning to the town where he escaped from the past to see his lover, Feleena again. The song even plays briefly in the episode.
Little "No":
Jesse lets out a heartrending one after Todd shoots the kid at the end of "Dead Freight".
Jesse's response to Walt offering him $1.5 million in "One Minute".
Living Is More Than Surviving: Discussed by Walt in "Gray Matter" when his family is trying to convince him to go into treatment.
"Skyler, you've read the statistics. These doctors talking about surviving. One year, two years, like it's the only thing that matters. But what good is it, to just survive if I am too sick to work, to enjoy a meal, to make love? For what time I have left, I want to live in my own house. I want to sleep in my own bed. I don't wanna choke down 30 or 40 pills every single day, lose my hair, and lie around, too tired to get up and so nauseated that I can't even move my head."
Loads and Loads of Characters: There's Walt's family, Jesse and his friends, the DEA, the Salamanca family, Saul and his employees, Los Pollos Hermanos... and those are just the ones introduced in the first two seasons!
Locked in a Freezer:
"4 Days Out", where Walt and Jesse are lost in the desert with no water and a flat battery.
In "Fly", they're trapped in the lab, unable to cook until they manage to decontaminate the lab (which is to say, kill the one of the most daring fly in television history). They're stuck there until they can kill the fly and cook the batch.
Love Makes You Evil: Walt claims that his love for his family is his only motivation for everything he's done, but this is questioned several times. It may have initially been true, but Pride and Greed soon took over.
Lured into a Trap: This happens a number of times:
Walt uses Gus' hatred of the Salamancas to get Hector to kill him.
Jesse and Hank trick Walt into driving to where he stole his money and then arrest him.
Walt does this to Jack's neo-Nazi gang in the final episode.

Alternative Character Interpretation / Breaking Bad
In a series where all the main characters have complex personalities, this is inevitable. Even minor characters are no strangers to this.

Walter White is quite possibly one of the most complex, most complicated characters ever put in TV. Let's see?
It's hard to decide if Walt's turning into Heisenberg is retaliation against a world that never cut him a break, a genuine desire to provide for his family, or both? And Walt himself — was he a nice guy when we first encountered him at the start of the show, or was his persona that of Heisenberg from the very start? Evidence is piling up to suggest the latter. Especially his explanation of his separation from Gray Matter.
Or is this all just one extreme case of a man going through a midlife crisis after being faced with his own mortality when he got diagnosed with cancer?
Did Walt really become the mask of his Heisenberg persona, or was the Heisenberg persona his true self from the start? Even the cast members and writers aren't entirely sure.
There are several hints early on that Walt craves power and has a violent, intimidating streak (his taunting of the teenager in the department store in episode one). Regardless of how you feel about Walt, as you re-watch and take a look at his impulses, it seems over-simplified to merely label Walt's journey to Heisenberg as a transformation from X to Y — Walt never "becomes" Heisenberg, but Heisenberg does indeed wake up, so to speak.
Another question: Is Walt's difficult path to criminal life the product of an established social factor? Or it's just the possibility that his ego and social life could be greatly affected by leading a criminal life? Deep examinations of the character seem to show that Walt was always a highly self-centered man, so the latter is highly plausible.
Skyler: Good woman who's acting poorly due to her husband's actions? Simple human frailty? Or a control freak who ran the family up until Walt broke bad and is now looking for any method to put him under her thumb in some form of twisted love?
In "Fifty-One", was Skyler's attempted drowning part of her attempt to get the kids out of the house, or was she actually suicidal?
Skyler and Walt's relationship, too. Many view Skyler as a Manipulative Bitch who doesn't love Walt anymore in Season 1, although by the time it becomes clear that Walt has ruined many opportunities of his own through his ego, it becomes much less clear. Specifically, is she acting desperately out of love for her family, Mama Bear instincts, a desire to maintain her life as it is, or because she is afraid of Walt?
Who is Gus Fring really? And we're not talking about his background in Chile here. Is he a ruthless drug kingpin or a relatively reasonable boss in the drug trade? Mike seems to think the latter, and he angrily tells Walt that everything would have been fine if he just did what he was told. The rival drug dealers may or may not have murdered Tomas Cantillo under orders, but what does it say about Gus that he left hazard pay for his employees in the event that he dies and they are sent to prison? Or even the fact that Gus invites employees over for dinner at his own house? They say that maybe there's a line: perhaps Gus is perfectly fine with those that follow orders and entirely overly cautious or even homicidal towards those that can’t be trusted to follow orders.
Jesse Pinkman's parents. The interpretation really comes down to whether or not you feel it's ever justified to give up on your child. Or whether, given how he was the one taking care of his aunt when she died from cancer, his parents are a large part of what screwed him up to begin with and what led him to turn to drug dealing.
The element of Jesse taking care of his aunt is also subject to this. We only have Jesse and his mother's word to go on — he insists he took care of her, his mother insists that he didn't do that much. Either (or both) could be an Unreliable Narrator. Jesse was said to be much more selfish and irresponsible in his youth, but his mother has a history of having absolutely zero faith in her son and doubting what he says, even when it's true.
Was Walt right about Gretchen and Elliott all along when they dismiss him on TV? Or are they just doing damage control for their company by distancing themselves from an infamous drug lord? Likewise, is Walt right in saying that they betrayed him, or is he merely blaming them for his past errors due to his own pride?
Gale Boetticher: Did he really miss the subtext of Gus asking him to master Walt's cooking methods and was simply too afraid to ask questions about it, or genuinely ignorant of Gus's intent to remove Walt from the picture altogether?
Jane Margolis: Did she genuinely love Jesse or was she more interested in his money/drugs?
What about Lydia? Was she nothing more than a cowardly bitch who would stop at nothing to make a buck, or was she just a single mother way in over her head providing for her daughter, unable to accept the true gruesomeness of the business she found herself in?

YMMV / Breaking Bad
Alternative Character Interpretation: See here.
And You Thought It Would Fail: AMC was very doubtful that the show would amount to anything. Even its creator, Vince Gilligan, didn't know if it would work. One executive described the idea of a high school chemistry teacher turning meth dealer, "the single worst idea for a television show [he'd] heard in [his] whole life". While it got mediocre ratings for most of its run, they eventually exploded at the end, and it remained critically acclaimed for its entire run, climaxing with almost universal adoration with its final episodes.
Anticlimax Boss:
The Cartel for Gus.
Inverted with Hector and Walt, neither one of which were seen as a major (direct) threat, but wound up costing Gus his life.
The Neo-Nazis who kidnap and enslave Jesse were viewed this for being less compelling than Gus.
Ass Pull: Walt leaving his watch on top of a pay phone in the final episode. In an interview on AMC immediately after the episode aired, Vince Gilligan admitted that they panicked a bit upon realizing Walt's constantly wearing the watch ever since Jesse gave it to him would create a continuity error with the flash-forward scene at the start of Season 5, so he just tried to make clear that Walt had some big reason for not wearing it to his final battle that's left to the viewer's imagination.
Award Snub: Frequently the cause of this to other shows, especially at the Emmys, where if Bryan Cranston was nominated for Best Actor, you can bet he'd win it (in particular, Friday Night Lights fans were very grateful for the two year gap between seasons three and four, which allowed Kyle Chandler to win for that show's last season).
Despite this, there are many who would argue that Cranston deserved to win for his season 4 and 5A (especially the former).
Awesome Ego: Walt at least until season 5B. Gus, too, although he's a slightly more restrained version than Walt.
Badass Decay:
Justified with Hank. He goes through a Humiliation Conga that ultimately leads to Break the Haughty, leaving him rather helpless and emasculated in the end. He gets better though until the end.
Walt goes through one in "Ozymandias", and keeps falling until the end of "Granite State": His drug empire collapses, the truth comes out, and he flees to New Hampshire where his cancer leaves him so weak that even he realizes that death is imminent. Thankfully, he leaps out of the decay heap when he manages to kill the entire Neo-Nazi gang with an M60 sentry and Lydia with well-placed ricin in her tea.
Also, threatening Gretchen and Elliot to use his funds to pay for Walt, Jr.'s college fund, thus fulfilling his endgame and getting payback on his former friends all at once.
Base-Breaking Character:
Walt definitely qualifies. On one hand, there are the people who see him as a badass anti-hero who does terrible things for the sake of his family, and believe that he really does care for them. On the other hand are the people who also view his increasingly crueler actions as a byproduct of his ego swelling to a dangerous degree, and believe that he's become just as bad, if not worse, than Gus and the Cartel. Even some members of the cast have sharply divided opinions on the character. It has become so bad that by the end of 5B, the base has nearly shattered completely by people who do and don't want him to succeed.
Skyler, especially in Seasons 4 and 5. She's either a Jerkass Woobie who takes a lot of abuse to protect her family, or a hypocritical Villain Tritagonist with no right to take the moral high ground when she argues with Walt.
Though not quite as polarizing as Walt or Skyler, Jesse also qualifies for this status. One half of the fandom believes that he's the biggest Woobie in the entire show, and that he deserves a happy ending, whilst the other half believe that he's nearly as bad as Walt and believe that he should share whatever fate befalls Walt. The divide has grown even bigger as of Season 5B. Is he a noble soul trying to find redemption by helping Hank catch Walt, or is he a whiny bitch and a rat who keeps blaming Walt for everything bad that happens to him because he can't take responsibility for his own actions? Or a man pushed to the edge by trauma seeking vengeance? And is said revenge justified or petty? You decide!
Hank has also joined the list as of Season 5B, for reasons similar to Jesse. Some believe that his quest to take down Walt is a justified one. Others believe that his obsessiveness and desire to best Heisenberg has made him barely any better than Walt, and is driven more by ego rather than an actual desire to do good.
Better on DVD: Has been hailed by many as arguably the ultimate example. Watching the show on DVD or Netflix lets you enjoy the show without the horrible feeling fans got at the end of each episode when they had to wait another week to see what happened next, in addition to spotting all of the Foreshadowing and symbolism. In fact, Vince Gilligan himself gives Netflix, and binge watching in general, major credit for seeing the show's massive jump in viewers in its final year.
Big-Lipped Alligator Moment: "Negro Y Azul" starts with a weird narcocorrido song about adventures of Heisenberg. It serves to show how far Walt's product and reputation have spread and foreshadow the influence the cartels will have in later seasons, but it's still right out of left field and very jarring to open an episode with a musical number.
Broken Base:
Over "Fly". Much of the fandom seems to think that it's either the best or the worst episode of the show. It's either a brilliant character study, or a pointless filler episode. Most people are at least in agreement that it doesn't really advance the plot of the show very much, unlike just about every other episode.
The plane crash at the end of Season 2 is either a Contrived Coincidence that's a Cliffhanger Copout after all the vague flash forwards and build up or it's a great metaphor for how Walt's actions have consequences he can't imagine. Specifically, viewers are sharply divided over whether it is appropriate to blame Walter for the plane crash.
While the second half of season 5 is almost universally loved and the first half is still well liked there is a disagreement between those that believe the plot line of the first 8 episodes was rushed and could have filled a full 13 episode season and those who like those episodes specifically because of the faster pacing.
While it was critically acclaimed by most fans and critics, the ending caused a divide of its own. Some people feel that it was a satisfying finale that wrapped up all the remaining loose ends and gave the audience what it wanted. Others felt that it was too cartoonish, that it didn't stay true to the darker, more tragic themes of the final seasons (especially in how Walt suddenly became The Atoner for little adequately explained reason), and that it ended things too neatly.
Catharsis Factor:
Admit it; by the end of "Grilled" you can't help but cheer on during Tuco's Humiliation Conga.
Mike assassinating Leonel Salamanca in the hospital is pretty cathartic if you watched Better Call Saul, since it's revealed the Cousins threatened to assassinate Mike's granddaughter.
Hector and Gus' deaths in "Face Off".
Basically the entirety of "Felina". Walt finally admits to Skyler that he did all of those bad things as Heisenberg for himself rather than to provide for his family, Skyler gets to give Hank and Gomez a proper funeral, Gretchen and Elliot will give the rest of Walt's money to Flynn on his 18th birthday, Hank and Andrea's deaths are avenged when Todd and Jack are killed, Lydia will most definitely die from ricin poisoning, and Jesse is finally free from both Jack's prison and Walt's manipulation.
The Chris Carter Effect: Vince Gilligan admitted that the third season was written from episode to episode instead of being planned out. For some fans, it's noticeable by how the plot moves at a strange pace and how some characters ended up as mere Red Herrings, but it isn't as jarring as other shows that fell under this effect, and the season still received critical acclaim. This is ironic considering Gilligan was an executive producer and writer for The X-Files, a series infamous for this trope.
Darkness-Induced Audience Apathy: Downplayed. Unlike other criminal dramas, there are still plenty of sympathetic characters who don't cross the line and are willing to do the right thing to stop Albuquerque's drug empire. Oddly enough, the relative darkness starts to flip some viewers into cheering on characters that they might not have even tolerated before. In the first season, when Walt was still relatively sympathetic and Skyler was still an innocent actor, Marie was seen as the most despicable, irritating character for her shallowness, her derailing of Skyler's life, her attention-seeking and her stealing. Fast-forward to Season 5, when she's a full-on Broken Bird and you start to feel like she's one of the few/most sympathetic characters.
Do Not Do This Cool Thing: Downplayed. The show spends an awful lot of time showing Walt do Mad Science in Hard Work Montages and lingering on the mountains of cash he earns. However, the appeal is fleeting at best, since drug use and drug users are still made to look pretty horrible, most people in the drug trade seem to die pointless deaths never to be seen again, and Walt destroys everything he cares about in the process. Even if this result does happen for a viewer, it’s more likely to be in the making meth sector than the using meth sector. And if they’re not educated like Walt, it’ll be their downfall.
Draco in Leather Pants:
Some fans still considers Walter as a hero who does everything for his family even when his actions say otherwise and he himself confesses in the finale that he has been making drugs because he enjoyed it and was good at it.
Although Skyler mostly gets the Ron the Death Eater treatment, some fans see her as a saintly woman who suffers from an abusive husband and blatantly ignore her obvious flaws like her hypocrisy and greed.
Jesse also gets a good deal of Draco in Leather Pants from people — apparently, realizing that you're a bad guy but continuing to cook meth and doing bad things that aren't as bad as the other criminals you work with makes you a good person. Actually discussed in-episode: when Jesse wants out of the operation with his cut of the money, Walt points out that it's still drug money he'd be taking and asks why he would want it if he's "so pure, with such emotional depth"
Even Gus gets this treatment to some extent, with some fans seeing him as a Broken Bird who was driven to evil by the Cartel's murdering his business partner, who is also loosely implied to have been his lover, ignoring the fact that he was shown to already be a meth dealer even before this happened, and is implied to have had a dark past of some kind in Chile (though the latter one's never actually elaborated on, probably contributing to Gus being seen this way).
A few people see Todd in Leather Pants despite his Lack of Empathy while doing murders or break-ins.
While he may be an Affably Evil Anti-Villain, many fans like to forget that Mike technically is a villain. Some downplays his villainy and others even goes as far to say that he doesn’t even count as a villain, even when he is clearly shown to be a cold-blooded murderer who has no problems with killing a family-man if he is paid for it, which makes it hard to argue for why he would be any less villainous than any other characters.
Many try to paint Saul as a victim who only did terrible things because he was afraid of Walt, ignoring that he tried to convince Walt to come back to cooking when he had quit and repeatedly suggested Walt kill people so he could save himself from going to prison.
While Hank isn't evil, many fans like to ignore his flaws such as his hypocritical behavior, like when he thought Hugo the janitor was a scumbag for smoking weed but was perfectly fine smoking illegal cuban cigars. His poor treatment of Marie in season 4 is often forgotten, ignored, or justified due to his mental state. This is especially true in season 5 where he tries force Skyler into a confession and shows no concern over Jesse's possible death. Regardless of his methods, it's questionable whether we should side with him in his investigation as his primary motive seems to be spite against Walt. While Walt should be punished for his actions, it doesn't seem like any lives would be improved by Hank catching him after he retired. He is also shown taking advantage of his power to bully Wendy the prostitute for no other reason than he can. He’s also an unrepentant casual racist. Despite all of this, most Breaking Bad fans will tell you that Hank's some kind of saint.
Ensemble Dark Horse:
Tuco, for being so terrifyingly insane and hammy it loops back around to entertainingly awesome. His return in Better Call Saul was met with open arms.
The Cousins, both for their intimidating presence, professionalism, and stone-cold badassery in most, if not all of their scenes.
Badger and Skinny Pete, no doubt due to their comical nature. Their scenes in El Camino have only increased their popularity.
Huell, Saul's ineffectual, pointy-headed bodyguard, especially when he's paired with Kuby.
Gomez, for his unwavering loyalty to Hank as well as their Vitriolic Best Buds partnership.
Escapist Character: Deconstructed with Walt — he initially starts out as this, as the audience cheers while he breaks out of his tedious existence and lives life on his own terms. But this recklessness gets a load of innocent people killed and his family ends up in shambles because of his illegal activities. Things only go From Bad to Worse as the series goes on.
Everyone Is Jesus in Purgatory: Would be an understatement for fans of this show. Literally every aspect has been analysed by the fandom for some sort of meaning, from the RV to everyone's fashion choices to coffee mugs to the fact that Walt wears white briefs. One reddit user decided to take this Up to Eleven by trying to find tongue-in-cheek symbolism for every item in the restaurant scene◊ from "Confessions".
Evil Is Cool:
Walter White, especially in his Heisenberg persona who becomes more badass as the series goes on. Not only is he a master chemist, but also surprisingly skilled engineer as he can make all sorts of traps using his knowledge and intelligence.
Mike Ehrmantraut is a former beat cop who uses his skills from police training to survive in the criminal underworld. He is shown to be a very skilled and competent detective, gunman and tactician. Speciall mention goes to the scenes when he takes out hit-squad on his own.
Marco and Leonel Salamanca are mute hitmen who reach the trope for their intimidating, precise and professional nature.
Gustavo Fring, for being a calm and sophisticated crime lord who also manages to take out almost all of his rivals single-handedly.
Fandom Rivalry: With fans of The Sopranos and especially The Wire, as all three shows are considered to be candidates for greatest (crime drama) show of all time.
Also, to a lesser extent (and perhaps not surprisingly) Game of Thrones. Before the latter's final season, both were very popular mainstream shows, highly acclaimed by both viewers and critics, and both had a solid 9.5/10 rating on IMDb (also currently the only two shows that have over one million votes on the site). So it was argued for a time which one would take the place as the "best show ever", or atleast the better one out of the two.
Fashion-Victim Villain: Saul. Nobody in real life would hire him if they saw his clownish taste in clothing. It is lampshaded by Hank in season 5.
Fountain of Memes: Jesse. Both Walt and Skyler qualify to a lesser extent.
Friendly Fandoms: With fans of The Irishman, due to having plots involving organized crime and corruption as well as the shared presence of Jesse Plemons. The fact that El Camino was released a month before The Irishman certainly helps.
"Funny Aneurysm" Moment:
In "Over", Jesse tries to surprise Jane by cooking breakfast while she sleeps in. She gets up before he finishes, however, which causes Jesse to say "You weren't supposed to get up." Jane jokingly asks "What, ever?" A few episodes later, Jane dies in her sleep.
One of Jesse's insults to Walt is "Heil Hitler, bitch." It comes back to bite him when he gets enslaved by Neo-Nazis.
Skyler warning Jesse to stay away from Walt in "The Cat's in the Bag" was a comedic scene, though rewatching the series, her telling him to stay away or else he'll be "one sorry individual" is a lot less funny considering most of Jesse's pains are a direct result of Walt's actions.
Several events in this show become this after watching Better Call Saul:
In "Abiquiu" , Skyler skeptically looks over Saul's degree from the University of American Samoa, which is Played for Laughs, a way of emphasizing what a tacky and fraudulent lawyer Saul is. Knowing the struggle, the heartache, and the eventual betrayal related to that degree from Better Call Saul will undoubtedly make that scene much less funny on future viewings.
Similarly, we have Saul's Freak Out during Jesse and Walt's plan to scare him in his introductory episode, once you take the ordeal he went through involving the skateboarding twins and Tuco in the Better Call Saul episode "Mijo" into account. What at first seemed like Saul simply fearing for his life is actually Saul thinking Tuco's men have decided to finally kill him, especially after he says that whatever they think he did, Ignacio (Nacho Varga) was the real one to blame.
Saul: Oh, thank God! Oh, Christ! Oh, I thought... [hyperventilating] What can I do for you, gentlemen?
"Blood Money": Badger's Star Trek script (which ends with Chekov getting brutally killed by a freak accident) loses all of its humor after his actor in the J. J. Abrams films, Anton Yelchin's brutal death in a freak accident involving his car in 2016.
Genius Bonus:
Heisenberg. If you paid attention in chemistry, this would bring to mind the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. If you studied German history, Walt's similarities to Werner Heisenberg are incredible. Especially in Season 5, now that Walt is working with a group of Nazis.
Episode 14 of Season 5 is titled "Ozymandias", after the Shelley poem. It's very fitting.
The air disaster in "ABQ" has some similarities to the 1986 Cerritos disaster, when an Aeromexico jet and a private plane collided over the skies near Los Angeles International Airport. The air traffic controller monitoring the two flights was named Walter White. The sole difference is that 15 people in houses were killed when Aeromexico Flight 498 slammed into a residential neighborhood.
In many later episodes, Walt is frequently compared to the American poet Walt Whitman. If you know a little bit about Whitman, it's even funnier to watch Gretchen rubbing Walt's bald head and commenting "You've got a good-shaped head!" Whitman was a notable advocate for phrenology, a pseudoscience which holds that the shape of a person's head can determine their mental aptitude.
Genre Turning Point: In addition to leading the trend towards Darker and Edgier direction on American television during the past decade, also left its mark in terms of Character Development (such as the longest, most complex Face–Heel Turn in modern TV) and impact of crime dramas set in modern times. Breaking Bad reinvented crime dramas at completely distancing itself from the classic mafia and focusing on a crude, gritty, macabre storyline where corrupt corporations and Mexican cartels are in charge of the drug market.
Growing the Beard: Many people agree that while it was tightly plotted, compelling and contained an incendiary performance from Bryan Cranston, Season 1 suffered from having its run truncated by the Writers' Strike. Season 2 picked up at exactly the point Season 1 left off and went on to exceed all viewer expectations, not only developing Walt and Jesse as characters, but giving ostensibly ancillary characters (from Hank, Skyler and even Tuco) an unexpected depth. Walter himself, started as a mildly complex character in the first season, but the second season began adding a massive amount of depth and layers that eventually made him one of the most complex characters ever put on television. Add to this the addition of Bob Odenkirk as Saul Goodman, Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut and Giancarlo Esposito as Gustavo "Gus" Fring. The pace of the show markedly picks up from the beginning of season 2, with every episode feeling like an 'end of season cliffhanger'. While season 1 was great, season 2 onwards was as addictive as, well... crystal meth. From there, it never looked back, eventually ending with one of the most critically acclaimed final seasons in TV history.
Harsher in Hindsight:
A fan who got the chance to watch the finale with the cast was later found to have been operating an underground synthetic marijuana distribution scheme.
All the scenes with Mike and his granddaughter became rather harder to watch after Better Call Saul revealed exactly why he's so devoted to her: For one thing, her mother isn't his daughter, but rather, his daughter-in-law and late son's wife.
Also, just try watching any scenes with Saul the same way knowing full well about his efforts to be a legitimate lawyer, and the sabotage from Chuck, Howard Hamlin and others that led to him becoming the Amoral Attorney we see here.
The second season features Jane Margolis's father, an air traffic controller, suffering from depression, showing up to work obviously unfit, and he causes a mid-air collision with numerous fatalities. In 2015, the clinically depressed pilot of Germanwings Flight 9525 deliberately crashed his plane into the side of a mountain in France, killing 150 people — although the Breaking Bad incident was an accident caused by a depressed air traffic controller, whereas the latter was intentionally done by a pilot.
There also exists some eerie similarities between Wayfarer 515 and the chain of events in January 2020 that led up to the crash of Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752. What happened in that case was that President Donald Trump (Walter White) first caused the death of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani (Jane Margolis), who was a very important personnel to Iran’s military (Donald Margolis), thus devastating them greatly. Yet, the latter party tried to do right by continuing their duties of protecting the sky. But in the process, they committed a fatal error, inadvertently downing a civilian aircraft, killing all on board. The main differences however being that UIA 752 was shot down due to the Iranian military misidentifying the airliner as a hostile US Force aircraft, whilst Wayfarer 515 collided in midair due to Donald Margolis’ failure to deal with Jane’s loss. Yet, disturbingly similar, both aircraft were Boeing 737s and the 167 occupants aboard Wayfarer 515 matched the exact number of the 167 passengers aboard UIA 752.
In "Madrigal", Hank offhandedly points out while interrogating Mike that the Philadelphia PD told him that Mike's tenure as a cop with them ended under, ahem, dramatic circumstances. Mike says "Not particularly," to which Hank agrees as he's more interested in probing Mike for any evidence of off-the-books work he performed for Gus. It's a bit harder to hear that line from Hank when you know that he's talking about the death of Mike's son Matthew.
In general, when watching Better Call Saul, it's hard watching scenes with multiple characters from this show since the audience is left knowing what exactly will happen to them once Walter White enters their lives.
Jesse's comparisons between Walt and the Nazis (including, but not limited to, his angrily shouting "Well, Heil Hitler, bitch!" in "...And the Bag's in the River") become quite frightening on two levels. First, Walt's pseudonym of "Heisenberg" is the same name as Werner Karl Heisenberg, a Nazi scientist; something Hank picks up on. Second, late in the series, Walt starts to work with actual neo-Nazis, going so far as to arrange for them to assassinate Jesse.
The end of Gus and Hector's rivalry gets an extra sour note with the reveal in Better Call Saul that Gus saved Hector's life during the stroke that paralyzed him...then interfered in his hospital treatment, simply because he wanted Hector to suffer Gus' own revenge. Suddenly, the face Hector makes right before blowing himself and Gus up makes an awful lot of sense.
Early on in the series, Walt Jr. creates the website "Save Walter White" to raise some extra money for Walt's medical bills. More people are increasingly turning to crowdfunding sites like GoFundMe and others to get extra money for their expensive healthcare costs.
After the Charlottesville riots in 2017, where people waving Nazi flags clashed with counter protestors and a woman was killed in the crossfire, every scene involving the Neo-Nazis becomes even more sinister than they already were. Even the scene with Jack, Todd, and Kenny talking about the train heist manages to be unnerving when watched after this event. In 2020, it only has gotten worse. The idea of Neo-Nazis as not only a legitimate threat but the Final Boss seemed a little backwards after everything Walt dealt with already at the time. Not so much now.
Heartwarming in Hindsight:
Mike's protective relationship with Jesse becomes much more moving after learning his backstory in Better Call Saul. His son Matty was killed after Mike advised him to compromise his morality, and he seems to view Jesse as a second chance to save a person who can still be saved.
Better Call Saul also reveals that Mike killing the surviving Salamanca cousin wasn't just a job for Gus, but payback for them threatening to kill his granddaughter.
He's Just Hiding!: Some viewers want to believe that Lydia and Walt survived "Felina", reasoning that Lydia was given fair warning of her poisoning and Walt was found by the police seconds after collapsing, giving them both time to be treated. However, Word of God says (and El Camino confirms) that both are dead. And the chances of their survival were very low in the first place. In fact, the script makes it clear that Walt died.
He Really Can Act: Bryan Cranston (previously best known for playing Bumbling Dad Hal) has proven his ability to effectively act and convey emotion dramatically in this show, winning him four Emmy awards as a result, tying him for the record for that category.
In the first season, Jesse and his actor, Aaron Paul, received a bit of a mixed reception with many feeling that it was going to go the route of the cliche stoner gangster-wannabe. Aaron Paul blew that prediction out of the water in season two, and continued to turn in progressively more impressive and jaw-dropping performances as the show went on, eventually winning three Emmy awards, breaking the category's record (at least among purely dramatic performances). Some even believe that his performance rivals or exceeds Bryan Cranston's.
Likewise, Skyler was seen as little more than the typical nagging wife by at least one review for Season 1. Fast forward a few seasons, and Anna Gunn becomes the only member of the main cast to win an Emmy besides Cranston and Paul (thanks in large part to Season 5A's "Fifty-One"), winning a second for the final eight episodes.
Even the guest actors on this show aren't immune to this. Mark Margolis (Hector Salamanca) had a large career consisting of bit parts before this show. Then came Hector, where he managed to make an entire character using nothing but facial expressions and physical acting, with only two scenes where he actually spoke at all, and he's widely considered one of the most iconic supporting characters in the show. In fact, with nothing but his face, Margolis actually got an Emmy nomination for his work.
Walt Jr/Flynn was frequently criticized early on for being a Flat Character whose only purposes were to eat breakfast and love his dad. Then came "Ozymandias" and "Granite State" when he was made into more than a Plot Device and RJ Mitte got a chance to show what he's capable of when he's given material to work with. He did not disappoint - Flynn tackling his father and calling the cops, as well as his epic yet tear jerking "The Reason You Suck" Speech to him when he rejects the drug money, are considered two of the highlights of Season 5B.
Hilarious in Hindsight:
Aaron Paul's next major TV role was as Eddie Lane in The Path. Eddie, a convert to the Meyerist cult, still has a relatively ambiguous backstory with hints to illegal activity and drugs. That, combined with the fact that Eddie is portrayed to be at least 10 years older than Jesse Pinkman (older than Aaron Paul, who played far younger than his actual age with Jesse) has yielded several theories that "Eddie Lane" is the new identity assumed by fugitive Jesse.
Aaron Paul previously auditioned for Malcolm in the Middle as one of Bryan Cranston's children. The What Could Have Been fan works basically write themselves with that one.
On August 16th, 2012, the Tuscaloosa County, Alabama Sheriff's Office announced its new Most Wanted Fugitive as a meth cook named Walter Eddie White. This sort of crime would ordinarily be local news had it not been for the coincidence of the schmuck's name. Ironically, the Walter Eddie White's blue collar operation was a lot less sophisticated than the show's Walter White.
Another real meth cook named Walter Jack White, was arrested in Montana for possession and firearms charges. In contrast to the fictinal Walter White's son being an uninvolved innocent, this Walter White's son was very much involved in the business, even shooting his dad in a dispute over a debt.
In "A-No-Rough-Stuff-Type-Deal", Hank and Walt have a discussion about the arbitrary nature of narcotics prohibition. Hank makes a joke on the basis of cannabis being illegal. Except, New Mexico legalized cannabis for medicinal use in 2007, a year before the show first went on the air.
Except New Mexico can't actually "legalize" marijuana, they can only make it not a crime under state law. As a DEA agent, Hank works for the federal government, and (properly) still must treat it as illegal, since New Mexico doesn't have the right to override the federal regulations about it. This is an important thing to remember in the wake of several states decriminalizing recreational marijuana in 2014.
Admittedly, the feds also have to play it smart and not actually enforce those laws in the state. If one is enforced, it’ll likely make its way up to the Supreme Court and nobody can be sure which side will benefit in the long run from additional Tenth Amendment legal precedent, so neither wants it.
A few years after Breaking Bad, Aaron Paul would play another stoner burnout beanie-lover who share a first name with Jesse’s Nazi captor. Dammit Todd!
Fans of Friday Night Lights get to see Landry killing Epyck.
Jesse drives away at top speed in a car at the end of "Felina." Guess what Aaron Paul's next major role was in? Need for Speed. May also double as an Actor Allusion, and triples as a pun in that Breaking Bad is about a different kind of speed.
In the 2006 movie Little Miss Sunshine, Bryan Cranston and Dean Norris have brief, unrelated appearances where Cranston plays an obnoxious businessman while Norris plays a cop.
In 1999, Aaron Paul was in a Corn Pops commercial where his parents are trying to talk to him about acting responsibly and being a functioning member of society, but he's too distracted by a drug-like obsession with the cereal to listen. It plays oddly like an in-canon prequel to the show.
After this show, Anna Gunn starred in Gracepoint, a remake of the British series Broadchurch. The fun comes from the fact that in the original series, her character discovers her husband is a murderer, which is not the case in the remake (though he's still a horrible person).
During "Over, Jesse at one point, while discussing superheroes he has drawn, asks Jane if she would ever want superpowers. Come late 2014 and Krysten Ritter had been cast in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, as the title role of Jessica Jones for their Netflix lineup.
In "Fly", Jesse gets annoyed at Walt for calling the titular insect in their lab a "contamination" he tells Walt he thought it was something more serious like an Ebola virus. Walt finds Jesse's example to be absurd and asks "what would a West African virus be doing in [the] lab?" There actually was a minor Ebola outbreak in the United States in 2014; very few people were affected but it got a lot of media coverage and generated a lot of fear and paranoia.
Gus Fring operates his meth network using his fast food chicken restaurant Los Pollos Hermanos as a front. In August 2015, two people in Cedar Rapids, Iowa were arrested for operating a meth lab out of a Taco Bell.
Los Pollos Hermanos smuggles drugs inside marked buckets of fry batter. While it's not fry batter, some smugglers have been caught trying to use nacho cheese to the same effect.
Tortuga, played by Danny Trejo, meets his end when he's decapitated with a machete. Come 2010...
Though it's worth noting that the original Machete concept was popularized by a fake trailer in the 2007 film Grindhouse, although was originally conceptualized in the 90s, which lead to writer-director Robert Rodriguez putting the character in Spy Kids first. In that sense, it amounts to more of a Shout-Out.
In "I See You", Walt Jr. reveals that Hank gave him a book about the agents who caught Pablo Escobar, everyone knows about Escobar but not the agents who helped bring him down. Come 2015, Narcos would air on Netflix (the same service responsible for greatly raising BB's profile).
The scene in "Cancer Man" with Ken Wins, the asshole stock guy who got his car blown up by Walt, gets funnier knowing about the time that Jimmy and Kim Wexler tricked him into paying for an entire bottle of very expensive tequila.
Badger's actor, Matt Jones, would go on to voice Wedge in the Final Fantasy VII Remake, who is part of the same group as another character named Jessie. Doubly funny since Jesse's actor, Aaron Paul, would also go on to play a Final Fantasy character.
After Walt shaves his head, Walt Jr. claims that he looks like Lex Luthor. In Harley Quinn (2019), Lex Luthor is voiced by Gustavo's actor, Giancarlo Esposito
At one point we get a flashback to Walt and Gretchen discussing the chemical composition of the human body. Their numbers do not equal 100%, leading to them wondering what they're missing.
Gus Fring is heavily implied to have a high ranking military officer in Augusto Pinochet's regime and is called "Gran Generalissimo" by Hector Salamanca. In Far Cry 6, Esposito plays a Caribbean military dictator.
Ho Yay: A very strong case could be made for Walt and Jesse. And, even though they didn't get much screen time together, Max and Gus could definitely count as well. Led to many "Is Gus Gay?" questions being asked.note 
Victor seems to take Gale's death harder than is normal for simple business associates in a dangerous business.
Hype Backlash: Being one of the most critically acclaimed TV shows of all time, this type of reaction was inevitable.
It Was His Sled: Walter White dying has become one incredibly quickly. Less than a year after the finale, websites, TV shows, the Emmys, all have no qualm revealing this fact without any sort of spoiler warning.
However, considering the show's basic premise, Walt's death was a massive case of I Knew It! for anyone who watched the first episode. Walt's survival would have taken a literal miracle.
Informed Wrongness: Jesse’s parents evicting him from the house made perfect sense since Jesse WAS running a Meth Lab in the basement and had he been arrested the DEA would’ve been able to seize the house and possibly many other of the family’s assets.
Jerkass Woobie:
Both Jesse and Walt qualify. Interestingly, while Walt begins as a regular woobie and Jesse the jerkass variety, they've switched places by season 3. By "Ozymandias", Walt has become this again after being forced to leave his family and let everyone think he did a lot of awful things of which he's innocent, as part of his plan to get Skyler off the hook.
Hank, whose private pain is concealed by a willfully ignorant and obnoxious public personality.
Marie approaches this territory in season 4 when she has to deal with an almost-crippled Hank, who is deeply bitter about his predicament and takes it out on Marie. By "Ozymandias", Marie has become a full Woobie.
Skyler as of Season 5, as Walt's sociopathic tendencies begin to seep into their home life. In Season 3, it's hard not to feel bad for her when Walt Jr. hates her guts for kicking out Walt... and she can't fight back because that would involve explaining Walt's new life in the drug trade.
Gus, Season 4's Big Bad. His plan to set up a business arrangement with the local drug lord backfired terribly, leading to his best friend and possible lover being shot in the head right in front of him. He was then held down and forced to stare into his eyes as he bled out, all while being reminded that "you did this to him." Twenty years down the line, he's far from the most innocent of souls, but it's clear that the pain is still tremendous.
Like You Would Really Do It:
Averted. Many assumed Hank and Gomez were safe after the cliffhanger in "To'hajille", believing that if they were going to be killed off, it would be at the end of an episode rather than at the beginning. Boy, were they wrong.
Played straight in the pilot. Like you're really going to have your protagonist commit Suicide by Cop in the first episode of the show.
Love to Hate:
Tuco Salamanca. So horrifyingly Ax-Crazy and so incredibly proud of that fact that he very quickly stole the show in every scene he was in and his return in Better Call Saul was met with open arms.
Gus. He's so brutal and terrifying that he doubles as one of the most compelling characters on the show.
Todd and his uncle, Jack. They're both so off that it's hard not to want to see more of them and try to figure out the puzzles that are their brains.
Skyler, to a lesser extent, for those who see her as an Anti-Hero rather than The Scrappy.
Walt, to those who don't strap him in leather pants.
Magnificent Bastard:
Gustavo "Gus" Fring once lost his best friend Max to the ruthless Hector Salamanca and Don Eladio. Building a drug empire with his own connections, wits and intellect, Gus launches a crusade for revenge, slowly bringing the Salamanca family to ruin and tormenting the now invalid Hector in his nursing home over it. Gus controls the meth trade with an iron fist, frequently seeing through Walter "Walt" White's plans and rendering Walt as helpless before him more than once. Upon returning to Mexico, Gus destroys Don Eladio's cartel in one swift move before returning to the US in triumph. Even after his death, the empire Gus has built endures and only Walt's incompetence manages to destroy it. A suave, sophisticated, even friendly seeming man, Gus repeatedly shows why he is the true master in the game the others are playing.
Ed Galbraith is a vacuum repairman and salesman who uses this business to mask his criminal activities of "disappearing" anyone willing to pay the price, creating for them new identities and relocating them to new places. Successfully hiding away and creating new identities for both Saul Goodman and Walter White despite their immense presence across national news, Ed learns how to perform chemotherapy to help Walter's cancer for an extra charge, and honors his word to keep his eye on Walt's family. Later striking a deal up with Jesse Pinkman, Ed sticks to his principles of his prices and turns Jesse away, shrugging off Jesse's attempts at garnering sympathy and repaying Jesse's aggression with mercy after chasing him off. Once Jesse gathers enough money to pay for Ed's services, Ed disappears Jesse to Alaska, promising to give the young Brock a final letter from Jesse and parting ways with Jesse in peace despite their conflicts.
Memetic Mutation: Has its own page, bitch!
Misaimed Fandom:
There's a very vocal part of the fandom that still fails to get the memo about Walt becoming a borderline monster who seriously damages both his family and others around him through his criminal activities, fawning over everything he does and says. The fact that this was occurring in the first few seasons is frustrating, but ultimately unsurprising at worst, and sometimes understandable. The fact that this has continued into season 5 is insane. By relation, it's also not surprising that the characters with the biggest Hatedoms are the ones who most vocally oppose Walt, most infamously Skyler. On the flipside, however, even many of Walt's most abhorrent actions can be simultaneously impressive in a Refuge in Audacity/Magnificent Bastard sense if nothing else, thus explaining where the dissonance emerges from.
There's also a lot of casual viewers who use the series as a shining example of the poor state of US healthcare, ignoring that, while the plot was kicked off by Walter being diagnosed with lung cancer and initially being unable to pay for it, he was given both a lucrative job offer and straight-up opportunity to pay for the treatments by Elliot and Gretchen of Grey Matter (which would've effectively solved Walt's biggest problem) that he turned down due to his pride and prior one-sided animosity towards his former co-workers. As well, near the end of the series, it's made abundantly clear from the start that Walter White hid behind the cancer diagnosis as an excuse to "break bad" and to rise to the status of drug kingpin, where he feels his intelligence would finally be recognized and appreciated. Essentially, if it were REALLY about the money then the plot would've been wrapped up almost immediately and even if he wasn't given both offers, his ultimate goal would remain unchanged.
Mondegreen: Many viewers misheard Lydia's line "Not if you're Madrigal." from "Gliding Over All" as "Not if you're magical." If only that was the real line...
Moral Event Horizon: Heavily debated, due to heaping amounts of Alternate Character Interpretation over how sympathetic certain characters are and how justifiable or not their actions are.
Word of God is that the moment that Walt crossed it is when he refused to let Gretchen and Eliot pay for his treatment and went back to cooking meth instead, letting his pride dictate his judgment rather than take the extremely generous and well-intentioned offer. Among fans and critics, the most common deeds brought up as candidates for the trope are the mentioned money refusal, allowing Jane to die, choosing to continue cooking meth despite achieving his initial monetary goals, arranging and ordering Gale's death, poisoning Brock, murdering Mike after the latter refused to give him information he could have easily gotten from Lydia instead, and, most notably, having ten witnesses murdered by the Aryan Brotherhood to protect his empire.
Skyler's shot at this trope could be considered agreeing to help launder Walt's drug money, which some fans feel ruin any claim she has to a moral high ground.
Jesse's relationship with this trope is interesting as he feels like he crosses it after he kills Gale. In truth the situation was mostly beyond his control, but afterwards he becomes so disgusted with himself that decides to go all-in on being evil and attempts to peddle meth to his addiction support group. Ultimately he finds he can't go through with something so heartless, and confesses it to them in tears.
Gus crosses it when he takes Walt out in the desert and tells him he intends to have Hank killed, and if Walt interferes, Gus will kill his wife, son, and infant daughter.
Unassuming Todd crosses this pretty hardcore at the end of his second appearance when he kills a child witness without batting an eye. He stays past the horizon once he kills Andrea in "Granite State" to punish Jesse.
Of course, little is known about Todd's background, but he was already an established criminal (albeit a petty one) when he was introduced, and was chummy with his Nazi uncle. Todd could have been as cold-blooded as he was because he was used to it.
If Jack didn't already cross it by executing Hank, then he definitely did by having Andrea murdered in front of Jesse and threatening to kill Brock too if he stops cooking meth for Todd.
Hector Salamanca crossed this years ago, killing Gus' business partner and sadistically forcing Gus to watch his dead body bleed out as Don Eladio taunted him.
Narm:
When Walter yells/raises his voice, it earns some snickers due to the snarl he uses when yelling.
Some of the Spanish segments (with Gus especially) have received some criticism from native speakers for not sounding authentic, rather sounding awkward and clunky to anyone who has an ear for the language.
Never Live It Down:
Contrary to Memetic Mutation, Walt Jr. does more in the show than eat breakfast. He demands other characters cook it too, and that's it.
There is considerably more to Jesse's character than him saying "bitch" a lot. He doesn't even say it that often on the show (especially later on), but it has grown into Jesse's most popular characteristic to the public eye.
For fans who dislike Skyler, she fucked Ted.
One-Scene Wonder:
Junkyard Joe, the crooked owner of the junkyard where Walt wants to dispose of the RV. When Hank gets mixed up in the action, Joe stalls him long enough with some pretty extensive knowledge of law.
The weapons dealer in "One Minute".
Peter Schuler, Gus' contact in the fast food industry.
Becky, the Whites' neighbor whom Walt uses to unknowingly lure out the mooks in "Face Off".
Trent, the waiter who tries to serve the White and the Schraders during an extremely heated discussion regarding Walt's crimes.
Robert Forster as the vacuum cleaner repairman and identity eraser in "Granite State".
Replacement Scrappy:
In-Universe: Gale for Jesse, briefly. Ultimately subverted in that Walt really likes Gale and probably relates to him better than Jesse, but decides he has to take Jesse back to keep him under control. As such, to get rid of him, Walter treats him like this.
Todd, for Jesse, mostly for being a dumber, more shallow, more arrogant, and downright sociopathic version of him. Walt may also feel this way about Todd in-universe, since he seems disappointed to be working with Todd after Jesse quits, even though their quality didn't drop and Todd tried his hardest to help Walt. He ended up getting rescued in Season 5B as detailed below.
Rescued from the Scrappy Heap:
Skyler has gradually undergone this over the course of the show, partially due to backlash against the contingent of fans who hated her so ferociously during the early seasons. It's no coincidence that as Walt falls deeper into the Heisenberg persona, Skyler's opposition to his behavior becomes more and more sympathetic. And when push comes to shove she chooses Walt and protecting her family from the truth, over just handing him over to Hank. Even though the decision means destroying her relationship with her own sister, possibly forever.
Hank began as Walt's obnoxious DEA brother-in law, which inevitably grated on people. Starting in Season 2, after he shoots Tuco and slowly starts to have a nervous breakdown, he became a fan favorite due to actually displaying some competency and Hidden Depths.
Marie got rescued, arguably, in season 4, when she shows her genuine love for Hank and tries everything to improve his situation and only gets coldness and distance. Then it happened for real in season 5 when she finds out the whole truth, and slaps Skyler and even tries to take Holly out of the house. And then follows up by telling Walt point-blank that he should just kill himself if he really wants this to end well for everyone.
Possibly Todd in Season 5B, when Character Development turned him from just a Replacement Scrappy for Jesse into an incredibly compelling, disturbing individual with a personality beyond "opposite of Jesse".
Some of the people who began to dislike Jesse after he sided with Hank in order to try and bring Walt down began to sympathize with him again once he was turned into a slave for Jack's gang, and was forced to watch Andrea get murdered.
Ron the Death Eater: Thanks in part to the Draco in Leather Pants / Misaimed Fandom surrounding Walter White, the most "hated" characters tends to be the ones who most vocally oppose Walt's actions.
Skyler was this initially to the majority of fans early on. The bit where she cheated on Walt with Ted only served to add fuel to the fire. Of course, it didn't help that she was in the rather thankless position of being in opposition to Walt's erratic behavior and suspicious actions. Even though the audience knew she had every right to be wary, given he was off cooking meth, her husband initially had sympathetic motives. However, as Walt's motivation drifted from desperately wanting to provide for his family to feeding his own massive ego and greed, she began gathering greater sympathy.
The Schraders didn't fare much better either — Hank is disliked for his boisterous, politically incorrect behavior while Marie was disliked for being a gossipy know-it-all. Hank in particular is seen by Walt fans as a villain who is even more evil than Walt, when he was actually a Hero Antagonist cop trying to stop Walt/Heisenberg in the final season, and even Hank's most questionable actions (often justified by the situation, such as beating up Jesse) are nothing compared to Walt's. They even claim that Walt's Start of Darkness was Hank's fault because he was an asshole to him, only because Hank was teasing Walt in the pilot, but it was pretty clear Hank respected Walt as part of his family.
Even Walt Jr. was not immune, with a lot of his detractors claiming him to be an whiny, ungrateful "retard" whose only saving grace was that he liked his father more than his mother. Which resulted in his calling the cops on Walt in "Ozymandias" being seen as his Moral Event Horizon to the hatedom.
The Scrappy:
Skyler White gets it the most due to her nosy and often rude behavior. In a show filled with murderers, drug dealers, corrupt cops and CRIMINAL lawyers, her Moral Event Horizon is cheating on Walt and smoking whilst pregnant. However most of the hate against her stems from her constantly opposing and arguing with her Draco in Leather Pants of a husband. Indeed, her murderous meth dealer of a husband is praised as one of the best characters ever, as fans are willing to ignore or embrace all his evil deeds because he's a "badass", while his wife is bashed and hated for being a "bitch". Her hypocrisy in constantly high-roading Walt but being willing to go to dark places herself on occasion and general Never My Fault attitude probably don't help matters either.
Marie is about as (un)popular as Skyler with the fans. She never shuts up, and what she says is usually irrelevant and self-centered. Eventually Hank and Skyler were Rescued from the Scrappy Heap for some fans, Marie never was until the final season. In fact, one of Skyler's most popular moments was channeling the audience and yelling "SHUT UP, MARIE!"
Any female character, such as Jane, Lydia and Gretchen will often get this sort of treatment by the fandom, Lydia particularly for being a Big Bad Wannabe and Manipulative Bitch who falls short of Gus. The exception might be Andrea, but she is largely Out of Focus.
Seasonal Rot: Two minor examples.
It's widely agreed that Season 4 is better than Season 5A because of its tense pacing and strong continuity (Season 4 centers on the development and climax of Gus Fring and The Cartel's story arcs which had been focal points over the previous two seasons, compared to the more slow-paced and less intense Season 5A). Most fans agree that Season 5B is the show Growing the Beard again and the best part of the whole series, but there are still a handful of fans who prefer Season 4.
There are also fans that hold Season 2 up as the best run of episodes of the show (at least before Season 5B), given its tight structure (Gilligan noted that it was the last time that the writers mapped out exactly what they wanted to do for a season well in advance), the introduction of fan-favorite characters like Saul, Mike, and Gus, and the great impact it had in growing the show's beard.
Shocking Moments:
Lots of them near the end of every season. Especially in the final eight episodes of the series, and even more so in "Ozymandias" and "Felina".
Bob Odenkirk's sudden reveal that the upcoming film had already been filmed, in complete secrecy. Somehow no-one had leaked this fact to anyone before Bob mentioned it.
Shocking Swerve: The Reveal at the end of season 2 that Jane's father Don is an air traffic controller (something mentioned only once in an early conversation between them), and his grief over her death leading to him becoming distracted at work and accidentally causing a mid-air collision which kills 167 people. Technically speaking, the plane crash was foreshadowed via flashforward Cold Opens in four episodes during the season, but the flashforwards were so vague and uninformative that the twist ending seems to come completely out of nowhere and could not possibly have been foreseen.
Signature Scene:
Gus's death scene is considered one of the most iconic death scenes in pop culture history.
Walt fighting Skyler and Jr. in "Ozymandias". The entire show builds up to this moment and it is so intense that it's often treated as the climax of the show even though there are two and a half episodes left after this scene.
The final showdown between Walt and the Aryans, ending with Walt killing all of them, freeing Jesse, telling Lydia she's going to die, and then peacefully dying in the meth lab.
Spell My Name with an "S": Skyler is frequently spelled as Skylar.
Spiritual Licensee: Before the FX program, it was as if Fargo had its own tv show.
Many have also likened it to a Shakespeare Tragedy set in the modern age.
Spoiled by the Format: Devastatingly subverted. Many fans were sure the shootout wouldn't have been made into a cliffhanger if Hank and Gomez both got killed. But this show does go there.
Played Straight just before. Oh, Hank arrests Walt! But there are 3 more episodes... Wait is that Walt's backup?
Squick:
When Hector is brought in to talk to Hank and Gomez, he instead chooses to shit himself in order to spite them. It's hilarious and awesome, yes, but it quickly becomes this instead when some of it makes it to the floor.
Near the end of "Box Cutter", Walt cleans the barrel containing Victor's remains, currently melting in acid. Walt stops cleaning for a moment when he notices the murky outline of Victor's head detaching itself from his body, and sinking to the bottom of the barrel. Yuck.
The disintegrated corpse falling through the floor in "The Cat's in the Bag...".
Gus' burnt face is reminiscent of Two-Face when he dies.
The heroin injections in Season 2 by Jesse and Jane. Brrr...
Take That, Scrappy!:
In "Hazard Pay", when Marie was constantly talking and nitpicking about the car wash workers, Skyler finally said what most fans wanted to say to Marie way back in season one: to shut up, repeatedly and boisterously. Sure, Skyler snapped because of Walt's actions bearing her down, and anyone could've triggered that reaction, but she couldn't have let out her frustrations on a more fitting character.
Marie's What the Hell, Hero? speech to Skyler in "Buried".
Skyler kicking Lydia out of the car wash.
For those that still hate her, Walt gives one to Skyler during his subtle Taking the Heat speech in "Ozymandias" where he basically voices all the complaints people have towards her since the beginning of the series, namely her bitchiness and nagging. On the other hand, Walt's speech could be interpreted as a subversion, since he intentionally painted himself in a horrible light to deflect any and all blame from Skyler. Some fans even theorized the speech was Vince Gilligan's Take That! to the fans who endlessly attack Skyler, no matter what she has done throughout the series.
Walt telling Jesse the truth of Jane's death, for fans who consider Jesse a rat.
They Wasted a Perfectly Good Character:
A number of viewers confused the school janitor (Hugo) that Walter got fired with the shopkeep that Spooge killed...a little research shows they are not the same character. That's a shame, because if it had been Hugo, Spooge's "victimless crime" line would have had much more impact.
Season 5 had this in spades...case in point, Declan. He is (seemingly) a Benevolent Boss who takes a more relaxed, matter-of-fact approach to the drug business, yet retains a professional demeanor and is quite savvy. His character arc could have proved an interesting Foil to both Gus's (who plays The Stoic and is rather ruthless) and Walt's (who is more emotionally turbulent and arguably more ruthless). Unfortunately, he doesn't show up until Season 5. Then he dies.
Lydia is a surprisingly colorful character, mixing Femme Fatale with Adorkable nervousness and an Ambiguous Disorder. She probably would be more liked had she had more time to develop.
Huell and Kuby. Delightfully passive and humorous characters. Every time they open their mouths, they make it count. They hardly get any screen time together, unfortunately. Apart, Huell is pretty much The Quiet One, while Kuby is passed over for drama's sake. Their best lines are as a pair.
They Wasted a Perfectly Good Plot: Mike has a granddaughter, Kaylee. Mike mentors Jesse. Jesse loves kids, having a strong Big Brother Instinct. It would have been cool to see the two develop a bond, especially after Mike's death.
Gus' mysterious past. First, the DEA is unable to find any information about his past in Chile. Second, in the flashback when the cartel kills his business partner, Don Eladio specifically says that Gus is only alive because "I know who you are." Considering how Gus is in no way a kingpin at this point, this implies something significant about his past. Creator Vince Gilligan has said that he deliberately left Gus's background mysterious, likening it to the contents of the briefcase in Pulp Fiction.
Surprisingly, Jesse and Walter Jr. never share a scene together during the series. Given that Walter Jr. is Walter's son and Jesse could be seen as Heisenberg's son, it surely would have been interesting for the two to meet.
Too Cool to Live:
Tortuga. A decapitated-head-turtle bomb was a bit of a downer note for his subplot.
The Cousins, Mike Ehrmantraut, Gus Fring, and Hank Schrader all count.
And so do Todd Alquist, Jack Welker and Walter White, in the finale.
Tough Act to Follow: Vince Gilligan, the series' creator, is already firmly convinced that he will never be able to follow it up.
This came up in the show itself. While the last two episodes, "Granite State" and "Felina", are widely considered superb in their own right and an excellent ending to the show, they also had the misfortune of following up "Ozymandias" which has been almost universally praised as both the best episode of the series, and one of the best episodes of television ever broadcast. Some critics and fans feel that the final two episodes suffered a bit, for no other reason than being forced to follow the near perfect "Ozymandias".
To accommodate for this, some fans like to classify "Ozymandias" as the climax of the show and the final two episodes as its epilogue.
Trapped by Mountain Lions: Subverted with Ted Beneke's financial troubles. At first, the subplot only seems to exist for the sake of giving Skyler more screen time, but it ends up tying hugely into Walt's A-plot near the end of Season 4.
True Art Is Angsty: One of the most critically-acclaimed TV shows of all time and also one of the darkest — and the darker it got, the more acclaim followed. The first season plays like a Black Comedy and, while considered good, is generally regarded as the weakest season. The harrowing fifth and final season displays Walter White's inevitable fall, shows just how far he's fallen as a human being, and is the most critically acclaimed season of the show. And "Ozymandias", the darkest and most emotionally-draining episode in the series, is already being hailed as BB's finest hour, if not one of the best episodes in TV history.
Unfortunate Implications: This article argues that Walt's sexual assault of Skyler in "Seven Thirty-Seven" is downplayed considerably by the fanbase and perhaps the show.
Unintentionally Sympathetic: Jesse's parents. Turning their backs on Jesse makes them very hard for the audience to like. Then taking the house from him when he's already down is a serious gut punch to him and the audience resulting in a certain level of satisfaction from both Jesse and the audience when he has Saul coerce them into selling it to him for way below market value. However there are a lot of clues that they did devote a lot of their life to trying to help him. For instance Jesse rolls his eyes when they meet to evict him from the house and says “god, not another intervention.” And Mr. Pinkman states that they can’t go through this again. Oftentimes families of addicts are told that as tough as it is you need to let them make their own choice to get clean. Compare this to Donald Margolis who watches his addict daughter like a hawk, goes to meetings with her her, etc. The result is that she dies, he’s devastated and makes a critical error as an Air Traffic Controller, and attempts suicide.
Wangst:
Skyler at times.
Granted, it's not like he doesn't have good reason, but Jesse cries a lot throughout the show. The neo-Nazis even lampshade this while watching his confession tape to Hank at the end of season 5. See this picture◊ for more information.
Amusingly enough, Skyler seems to accuse Marie of engaging in this early on in Season 2 (see: her rant to Hank).
What Do You Mean, It's Not Political?: While Word of God has stated that the show is a story of how "Mr. Chips became Scarface," the original driving force behind Walt's meth manufacturing, to help pay for his medical bills, has prompted pro-single payer health care advocates in the US to use the show to highlight the issue of health care costs in the United States,◊ as well as the War on Drugs. Even the creator has claimed that the show could not be set anywhere else but the United Statesnote .
Though this is 100% a case of Critical Research Failure on part of both the show and the pundits: Walter is a public school teacher. Which means he has the same gold plated health insurance policy every public school teacher has by law, which would include a hefty life insurance policy to help sustain his family. Alternatively, since the whole premise was Walter using his illness as an excuse to do what he did, it wasn't a case of research failure and he never actually needed the money.
Willing Suspension of Disbelief: In the grand finale, taking out a room full of people with a homemade sentry gun isn't the likeliest outcome, but who cares when the alternative is neo-Nazis not getting their comeuppance?
Subverted to the surprise of the fans, the Mythbusters and Vince Gilligan himself when they tested how the sentry gun would actually function, and it worked just like it did in the show!
The Woobie:
Jesse. Apparently, Walt thinks of Jesse as being a Woobie. According to Bryan Cranston on Inside Episode 12, in Walt's mind if something were to happen to Jesse, it would be like stabbing a puppy with a pitchfork. Rather extensive thoughts on Jesse's woobiehood, for those with time and interest.
Gale, poor Gale.
Walt himself starts as this, then becomes progressively less sympathetic as the show goes on. Fortunately, he becomes a Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds at the end.
The little boy in "Peekaboo".
Don Margolis. His wife is gone; his daughter Jane relapses back on drugs despite his best efforts to help her stay clean after over a year, and then she winds up dead from an overdose the morning before she would have gone to rehab. After the Wayfarer 515 disaster, he's vilified across town to the point that he tries to kill himself.
Walt Jr. The kid really loved his dad and once he finds out he was Heisenberg, not only is he crushed and angered, but within less than a day he intercedes into a knife fight between his parents and calls the cops on Walt, forcing him to abandon his family forever.
Marie Schrader becomes this in "Ozymandias": She had just heard that Hank had taken Walt into custody, giving her her first real Hope Spot in ages, only to learn shortly afterwards that Walt has escaped and Hank has been killed, possibly by Walt under her assumptions.
Skyler also becomes this in "Ozymandias" with the abduction of Holly.
Andrea. When we first meet her, Jesse is trying to get her back on meth during their Narcotics Anonymous support meeting. Fortunately, Jesse has a soft spot for kids and immediately backs off, making it clear that she's a young single mom desperately trying to get her life together and raise her son properly. Then she's shot dead by Todd for something she had nothing to do with.
Brock. He was poisoned by Walt as part of his plan to get Jesse on his side and not Gus', and then his mother was shot dead right outside his house. Despite Andrea being a caring mother, the odds were already stacked against him. With the implications coming from the Fridge Horror of his situation, his odds of being murdered or going to prison are far greater than graduating high school.
X-Pac Heat: As mentioned above, Anna Gunn has received this big time from the more zealous Skyler haters as a result of the extreme amounts of Skyler hate.

Breaking Bad / Tropes M to R
MacGyvering: Walt often uses his chemistry to solve practical problems.
Thermite made using the aluminum powder from an Etch-a-Sketch.
A makeshift battery made from sponges, bolts and brake pads was pure grade-A vintage MacGyvering.
A bomb mostly made from stuff he's got lying around.
Extracting ricin from castor beans.
Walt creates an electrical arc from live wires for a coffee pot to cut through a plastic handcuff keeping him attached to a radiator. It works, but not without a nasty burn on his wrist.
In "Felina," Walt constructs an automatic turret gun, using a garage door opening mechanism to sweep the gun back and forth and his car's remote key as a trigger switch.
Machiavelli Was Wrong: Subverted by Gus. He doesn't believe in using fear as a motivator as Mike suggests. Unless he comes to see you as a dangerous liability who can only be controlled that way.
Male Gaze: Don Eladio's pool party in "Salud" opens with a long tracking shot on a woman's bikini-clad butt.
Manic Pixie Dream Girl: In Season 2, Jesse meets a low-key MPDG in the form of Jane, a tattoo artist with a serious drug history. She's considerably more subdued and less manic than most examples, and she encourages him to cut back on the drugs in addition to getting him to embrace art. Then she demonstrates the dark side of this trope when she backslides on her own sobriety, gets Jesse into harder drugs (and given that he started out as a methhead, that's saying something), and ultimately reveals herself (at least while using) to be greedy, manipulative, and self-destructive. Then she chokes on her own vomit thanks to Walt.
Marijuana Is LSD:
After smoking methamphetamine, Jesse sees two men in white shirts who want to talk to him about Jesus as hulking, leather-clad thugs with machetes and hand grenades. Meth isn't a hallucinogen. It can cause paranoia and long periods of sleep deprivation, which in turn can cause hallucinations, but Jesse hadn't been up for that long. However, it could be interpreted as a visual representation of his paranoia.
When trying heroin for the first time, Jesse hallucinates floating off of the bed.
Marital Rape License: Used twice to show Walt's sense of entitlement. In the first episode of season 2, flush with adrenaline much as he was in the pilot, he attempts to have his way with an unwilling Skyler, who fends him off. Later, in season 5, Skyler tells Walt that she "can't even keep [him] out of [her] bed," implying that he has effectively intimidated her into sex.
Match Cut
In "Over", the sound of Walt's drilling cuts perfectly into the sound of Skyler vacuuming.
In "Kafkaesque," the episode opens with a Los Pollos Hermanos commercial extoling the signature fried chicken. It ends with a shot of pieces of fried chicken falling in front of a background, dissolving into Walter and Jesse doing a deal of Blue Sky at the superlab.
Three within a single montage in "Gliding Over All." Walt, sitting on a couch, leans forward to put down a drink at Hank's place — cut to Walt leaning back on another couch, in his meth-cooking suit. Skyler puts her coffee cup down on her desk at the car wash — cut to Lydia picking up her cup of tea. Saul pours himself a drink — cut to Walt pouring some liquid from a faucet.
In "Ozymandias", Walt slams his car door out in the desert — cut to Marie slamming her car door as she arrives at the car wash.
Mathematician's Answer: This phone conversation from "Shotgun":
Walt: Where's Jesse?
Mike: He's with me.
Jesse gets the phone
Walt: Jesse, where are you?
Jesse: I'm with Mike.
Meaningful Echo: In Walt's Despair Event Horizon in "4 Days Out", he says that he deserves this. In "ABQ", while Jesse is suffering a DEH of his own following Jane's death, he says the same thing and refers back to its original use in the former episode, now knowing its meaning.
Meaningful Name:
Walter White: 'Walter' means 'Ruler of the people'. Walt does say he's in the 'empire business'.
"Heisenberg", as in "Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle". Considering all the uncertainties surrounding Walter White and that persona, it's a good bet the writers had that in mind. Werner Heisenberg also worked for the Nazi nuclear weapon program during WWIInote  and Walt works with a group of neo-Nazis in season 5. In Season 1 episode 6, "Crazy Handful of Nothin,'" when Walt meets Jesse's friends at a science museum to plan distribution, Heisenberg and nuclear bomb-related history are depicted in the background. Walt improvs the name when he confronts Tuco and is ready to blow everyone up with the mercury fulminate.
Skyler White: 'Skyler' derives from the Dutch surname 'Schuyler', meaning 'student' or 'scholar'. Skyler learns to be comfortable with crime from Walt, and eventually becomes a far better liar than him.
Walter White Junior: Doesn't have a name of his own, nor a characterization beyond loving breakfast.
Flynn: derives from 'O'Floin', meaning 'son of Floin', which itself derives from 'flann', meaning 'red'. So, perhaps, 'Son of one with blood on his hands'?
Hank Schrader: 'Hank' is a shortening of 'Henry', which means 'Ruler of his Home', possibly indicating his standing on the side of the law, as well as his high rank, and nicely contrasting Walter's 'ruler of the people'.
Jesse Pinkman: 'Jesse' means 'gift from God', perhaps highlighting his more virtuous nature.
Saul Goodman: 'Saul' means 'called for' or 'asked for'. Fits his role quite well.
Saul Goodman's name is pronounced like "'S all good, man!" This may be intentional on Saul's part, as he tells Walter that his real surname is McGill, and he changed it to something more Jewish-sounding to appeal to Albuquerque's criminal underclass.
Spinoff series Better Call Saul confirms that this was intentional on Saul's part.
From the title card, Bromine is "a fuming red-brown liquid at room temperature [and] corrosive and toxic" and Barium is used in X-Rays and turns fire green.
Beneke Fabricators, a company which we later learn is involved in large-scale tax fraud. Fabricators is the key word.
Gray Matter has two. One being named after a tissue that makes up part of the brain, the other being a combination of the founders' names; Elliot Schwartz and Walter White. "Schwartz" is German for "black", black + white = gray.
Meaningful Rename: At the end of the series Skyler reverts to using her maiden name and Walt Jr re-adopts his nickname Flynn (having earlier ditched it when he sided with his father), a sign that both have cut Walt from their lives.
Mega-Corp: The German company Madrigal Electromotive, which owns Los Pollos Hermanos and the laundromat hiding the superlab.
Walt co-founded (then left) Grey Matter, which became a huge company worth $2 billion.
Meta Casting: Bryan Cranston's turn This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Playing Against Type works in his favor through the show, especially given he was previously best known as the goofy and lovable father Hal from Malcolm in the Middle.
Mexican Standoff: In "To'hajiilee", between Hank and Gomez, and Uncle Jack's heavily tooled-up crew.
Midair Collision: The Season 2 finale. One believes that it might be a reference to the crash of Aeromexico Flight 498, given that that plane was downed by a midair collision while in the hands of an air traffic controller named Walter White.
Miranda Rights: Hank tells Walt his rights after he arrests Walt in "To'hajiilee". Walt's only response is calling Jesse a "coward".
Money Is Not Power: Invoked in season 5B when Walt offers Jack eighty-million dollars to spare Hank's life. It obviously doesn't work.
Monochrome Casting: Given that the most prominent Hispanic characters on the show (Gus, several of his dealers and subordinates, and almost all of the Cartel) are dead by the end of season four, the cast of season five consists exclusively of white Americans, with the sole exception of Gomez, who only appears in a handful of episodes. The primary antagonists even happen to be a neo-Nazi organization, which naturally precludes much racial diversity.
What's particularly egregious is that Steve, Andrea, and Brock are the only notable Latino characters who are not outright stated to come from a Latin American country. Albuquerque is a city where Latino Americans outnumber Anglo Americans by a slight margin but the vast majority of the cast is white and many minor characters are as well. Originally the show was supposed to take place in Riverside, California. But Riverside has nearly identical Demographics as Albuquerque.
Victor is the only notable Native American character. The Native American population is about 5% and about 12% statewide.
On the flipside there are many African American minor characters in a city where only about 3% of the population is black and less than 2% statewide.
Mood Whiplash: So, so much. The show goes from comedy to tragedy and back at the drop of a hat.
Probably the harshest example to date is in season 5's "Dead Freight"; it's mostly a pretty fun episode that sees the guys pulling off a brilliant train heist, for methylamine, conceived in such a way that no innocents have to be killed and they won't even know the train was robbed, the execution of it is one of the most intense, suspenseful moments in the show's history. Everything, just barely, goes off without a hitch, leaving the characters and the audience feeling relieved. Then they see that a young boy has been watching them for who knows how long. Newbie Todd calmly pulls out a gun and kills the kid without batting an eye.
Moral Event Horizon: In-universe, Skyler feels that Walt has crossed the line in "Ozymandias" when she thinks that Walt killed Hank despite his attempts in explaining that he tried to save him.
More Dakka: Jack and his Nazi buddies believe in this wholeheartedly. And it's how they die.
Mortal Wound Reveal: In the Season 4 finale, after Héctor sets off a bomb that obliterates his room and everything inside, Gus strangely steps out seemingly unharmed. After Gus casually adjusts his tie, the camera pans around to reveal he's missing a decent amount of his face and head, and then he promptly drops dead.
This is also how we discover the bullet wound which kills Heisenberg.
Motivational Lie: In the season 4 finale: Walt convinces Jesse that Gus tried to poison a child with ricin to get Jesse on his side.
Motive Decay: Done deliberately with Walt as part of the show's deconstruction of the Justified Criminal trope. Walter initially starts cooking meth upon being diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, in hopes of securing his family's financial future. However, upon learning that his cancer is in remission, he doesn't stop cooking. No matter how many times he half-heartedly attempts to leave the business, he always returns sooner or later. Early in season five, he is made an offer to sell his raw materials for $5 million (well over six times the amount of money he had originally hoped to make) and leave the business scot-free, and refuses, explaining that he is in the "empire business". In the series finale, after five seasons of insisting that all of the horrific things he had done were in the interests of providing for his family, he finally confesses that he did them for himself, because he enjoyed being a villain and had a talent for it.
Mundane Made Awesome:
The fly falling to the ground dead at Jesse's feet in slo-mo.
One of the extras on the Season 3 DVDs is titled "Pizza Of Destiny: Cranston's Greatest Throw" and starts with an In a World...-type trailer voice intoning the fate of one pizza to rise above mere food, slip the surly bonds of gravity and take to the air. It's about the scene where Walt throws a pizza on the roof.
In "Madrigal", the montage of Walt and Jesse looking for the ricin cigarette.
Gale's approach to making coffee.
Murder by Inaction: Walt watches Jesse's girlfriend, Jane, choke to death on her own vomit (she'd shot up with heroin). Jane had earlier demanded Walt fork over some drug money and threatened to rat him out. Made worse in that Walt had inadvertently moved Jane on to her back when he tried to wake Jesse up, and thus indirectly caused her death as well as choosing not to prevent it.
Must State If You're a Cop: Discussed and then subverted. An undercover cop manages to convince a meth dealer named Badger — who already suspects the buyer is a cop, and as such isn't admitting to being a dealer — that this law is "like, in the Constitution, or something." The cop then says directly that he's not a police officer, so Badger offers him meth and promptly gets arrested.
My God, What Have I Done?:
When Walt realizes that he was responsible for the plane crash...
Tuco has this reaction when he realizes he's just killed one of his henchmen.
Walter has the reaction of this after shooting (and ultimately killing) Mike over a fit of rage just because Mike had told him off in a argument.
Jesse spends all of season 4 feeling this after murdering Gale.
Saul seems horrified when he learns Walt used him to help poison a kid.
My Rule-Fu Is Stronger Than Yours: Hank gets into a legal debate with Old Joe, the junkyard owner while Hank is trying to break into the RV, which contains Walt, Jesse, and their meth lab. Hank says that the RV is a vehicle, so he can search it without a warrant. Old Joe counters that it is used as a residence, therefore it is protected from "unwarranted search and seizure" by the Constitution.
Naked Apron: Walt wears a lab apron over his tighty whities in the pilot. He still gets confused for being a nudist, though.
Neat Freak
Gus, who obsessively prioritizes keeping his clothes neat to inappropriate levels. The most ridiculous examples include carefully laying down a towel and organizing himself before vomiting up a lethal poison about to kill him in "Salud," and adjusting his tie after being caught in a bomb blast in "Face Off."
Walt has bouts of this when the pressure of his criminal double life gets to him, fixating on the rotten boards in his house in "Over" and a fly in the lab in "Fly".
Lydia, making her a comical Fish out of Water when examining Declan's filthy underground meth lab.
Nemesis as Customer: In the pilot, Walter is pushed by his boss into washing a car despite it not being in his job description, and is further humiliated when it turns out to belong to one of his obnoxious students who immediately lords his position over him while his girlfriend excitedly gossips to her friends about their teacher's side job. It's one of the many things that leads Walt to hit his Rage Breaking Point and abruptly quit after he receives his cancer diagnosis.
Next Sunday A.D.: The first season takes place in late 2008 and aired in early 2008.
Newscaster Cameo: Ashleigh Banfield in the third season and Charlie Rose in the fifth. The newscaster who reports on Gus's death at the end of the fourth, Antoinette Antonio, is a local morning radio host.
New Old West: The series is very much a neo-Western, fitting its New Mexico setting, and features several of the archetypes and plot elements associated with the genre such as pistol duels, Mexican standoffs, the principled and tough sheriff, the dangerous bandito, deserts, small isolated border towns, Indian reservations, and even a train robbery. The criminals in the show are essentially Western outlaws who use modern technology and make money through the modern-day drug trade. Gilligan cited Sergio Leone's Westerns as a reference for how he wanted the series to look. This is also apparent in the soundtrack. El Camino, the chronologically last Breaking Bad story, even has a quick draw duel with revolvers between outlaws as its climax, which Jesse promptly lampshades by calling it "classic Wild West."
Nice Hat: Walter dons a black porkpie as part of Heisenberg's persona.
Nice Job Breaking It, Hero!:
Another big element of the show. Most of Walt's actions have consequences he is unable to foresee in any way — like the plane crash or the Cousins eventually coming after Hank — and they often end up messing up the situation even more. One of the best examples of this is the season 5 premiere, where Walt takes a giant magnet to destroy Gus' laptop at a police evidence warehouse. In the ensuing chaos, a photo breaks, revealing bank accounts meant to silence everyone involved in the operation. Plus the pull of the magnet tipping over their own truck.
Walt hiring Jack's neo-Nazis to murder Jesse results in Hank and Steve Gomez being killed and Jack taking most of Walt's money.
Jesse in "Granite State." While being forced to cook for Todd and Jack, there's a picture of Andrea and Brock taped on a wall in the lab, as if to say "If you fuck up, they're dead." So naturally, when Jesse is caught trying to escape Jack's compound, he's promptly driven to Andrea's house to watch her execution.
Nice Job Fixing It, Villain!: Gus setting the twins and Hank against one another. While recovering from the resulting shootout, Hank takes an interest in the Gale Boetticher murder, connects him to Gus and starts investigating Gus' involvement in the meth business.
Nice to the Waiter: Walt gives a $100 tip to the kind waitress in the season 5 premiere.
Noble Bigot with a Badge: Hank, who despite having a fondness for making crude jokes at the expense of Hispanics, women, and poor people, turns out to be very much a good guy, in addition to his best friend being Hispanic and laughing off most of his jokes.
Nobody Poops: Hank inadvertently discovers that Walt is Heisenberg whilst searching for something to read when he's using the Whites' toilet.
No-Holds-Barred Beatdown:
Tuco is very fond of this.
In season 3, Hank does this to Jesse.
In season 4, Mike does this to Walter.
Also in season 4, Jesse delivers a particularly brutal one to Walt.
In the season 5 episode "Confessions," Jesse gives one to Saul after he finds out that Walt poisoned Brock.
Noodle Incident:
Something that happened on a 4th of July weekend at Gretchen's father's place precipitated Walt and Gretchen's falling out and Walt's departure from Gray Matter. There is the vague suggestion of a Love Triangle of some sorts, as a flashback scene shows Walt and Gretchen engaging in some heavy flirting, while in the main time frame of the story Gretchen is married to Elliott.
This incident was This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.later explained by Vince Gilligan, saying that Walt felt inferior to Elliott and Gretchen and left because of those feelings.
Walter also lost a job at Los Alamos for an unknown reason. In fact, the show never explains how a chemist of his talents wound up teaching high school chemistry.
Gus's history in Chile causes the cartel to spare him, even though they just killed his partner in front of him.
No, Mr. Bond, I Expect You to Dine:
Gus invites Walt to his house to cook dinner with him in one episode — which at the time seems harmless, but in retrospect...
A season later, Gus invites Jesse for dinner while Walt and Jesse are actively conspiring to kill him and Gus is trying to manipulate Jesse into letting Walt be killed.
No Pregger Sex: Lustily averted by Walt and Skyler in the first 2 seasons.
No Pronunciation Guide: A couple of the episode titles can be this if you don't speak Spanish or Navajo such as "Negro Y Azul", "Abiquiu" and "To'hajiilee".
Nothing Is the Same Anymore: Starting with Season 2, the series became famous (and critically acclaimed) for this, breaking the status quo every few episodes, leaving it nearly completely unpredictable. However, its final eight episodes, especially "Ozymandias", stand out in particular, with every single one easily qualifying as a Wham Episode.
Not So Different:
In "Rabid Dog", it becomes clear that Hank is toying with other people's lives just like Walt did. He shows he doesn't care about Jesse any more than Walt does, and even hopes that Walt will murder Jesse provided they can catch him in the act.
In "Rabid Dog" as well, Skyler has become comfortable with murder as well, pushing Walt to murder Jesse. She also has no qualms about Saul sending two thugs to threaten Ted into paying off his tax bill.
Obfuscating Stupidity:
After the CID catches on to Ted's book cooking, Skyler saves him from prison time by acting like a Dumb Blonde who hopelessly screwed up the company's ledgers completely by accident. Though he is still required to pay the back taxes, it prevents him from being charged with criminal fraud, and it also keeps the government from auditing Skyler's financials and catching Walt's drug income.
People that only know of Saul Goodman's public persona as a sleazy ambulance chaser tend to rather underestimate his competence in serious matters. Badger getting arrested and Jesse buying his house back are just two examples.
Object Tracking Shot / Epic Tracking Shot: After the plane crash in "ABQ", we see a long, 20-second OTS from the perspective of the pink teddy bear, heading straight for Walt's pool.
Oblivious Guilt Slinging: A lot of it.
Oblivious to His Own Description: In "Cat's In The Bag..." Skyler watches Jesse's website, and sees "MILFs" listed among his "general interests".
Skyler: MILFs? What the hell is a MILF?
The Obstructive Love Interest: Jane Margolis (played by Krysten Ritter) is this to Jesse — let's count the ways:
Getting Jesse addicted to heroin and thus making him useless as Walt's partner for a few episodes towards the end of Season 2.
Jane gets Jesse high on heroin during Season 2 Episode 11; as a result, Jesse misses the funeral for his murdered friend "Combo" and Walt has to deliver the meth himself (missing his own daughter's birth while doing so).
Due to Jesse being on heroin and thus useless to him, Walt keeps all the meth profits to himself, but when Jane finds out about this, she threatens Walt with exposure to the media if Walt does not hand over half the profits to Jesse (read: not to Jesse, but to Jane).
Jane's father Don catches her and Jesse doing heroin and is one step away from calling the cops to arrest them, before giving her one last chance.
Jane plans on using Jesse's meth money so that she can escape her father and Jesse can escape Walt by fleeing to New Zealand, but shares one last dose of heroin with Jesse, which gives her an expectable death of unconsciously choking on her own vomit. This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Waking up next to Jane's corpse the next day scars Jesse forever and means that Walt has to get him to rehab.
Obstructive Vigilantism: Héctor Salamanca goes in to testify against Jesse, but he doesn't actually tell the cops anything.
Obviously Evil: In case it wasn't clear whether you're supposed to root for them or not, the villains of season 5 are neo-Nazis. Yes, with swastika tattoos and everything. Mind you, they show little evidence of any white supremacist beliefs or behaviour, aside from their racial makeup.
Offscreen Crash: In I See You, Jesse is bored while waiting for Walt. Among other attempts at entertaining himself, he rolls around on a computer chair, and at one point rolls past the camera and offscreen, where there is a crash, an "ouch", and something small rolling back in the other direction.
Offscreen Inertia: At a Q&A session at a public screening of the finale, Vince Gilligan joked that Huell is still sitting in that hotel room.
Oh, Crap!:
Walt and Jesse when they discover that Krazy-8 wasn't killed by the phosphine gas.
Walt when he finds out that Jesse dissolved Emilio's body in a ceramic bathtub, and then again for both of them when the sloppy remains crash through the ceiling.
Gus noticing that Tio's bell isn't chiming properly, because the clapper's been replaced with a bomb that he's just triggered.
Quite literally when Walt remembers Gus had a CCTV camera in the superlab that he and Jesse previously destroyed, the same one that is now crawling with DEA agents.
Both literally and figuratively in "Gliding Over All" when Hank finally discovers that Walt is Heisenberg thanks to some light reading while on the toilet.
Hank and Marie in "Confessions" as they watch Walter's Thanatos Gambit Confession Cam tape implicate them in his crimes.
Lydia, when Walt informs her that he laced the Stevia that she always takes with her tea with ricin.
The whole show is really a non-stop string of Oh, Crap! moments.
The famed "I am the one who knocks speech" has a subtle example of this. Skyler is panicking after she hears about Gale's murder and trying to get Walt to go to the police. Walt stands up and gives a very impassioned speech about how he is not in danger and is in fact a person to be feared. It's only at the end, after he delivers what has become his Signature Line, that he gets a quick look of uncertainty on his face, realizing he's pretty much given away to Skyler that he's the one responsible for Gale's death. Also at this point, Skyler is having a pretty big Oh, Crap! of her own at the strong implication that her husband is a murderer.
On a Scale from One to Ten: After Hank is injured, his doctor uses this to help determine how much feeling he has in his legs.
Once More, with Clarity!: In-universe. Once Hank finds Gale's book in Walt's bathroom, he starts combing back through all the files related to the Heisenberg case going all the way back to Season One. Although circumstantial, all of it points to Walt being Heisenberg.
One Degree of Separation:
Walt bumps into Jane's father at a bar and they get talking about the perils of fatherhood, completely unaware of their connection. In "Fly," Walt muses on how unlikely a coincidence it was; even more so given that the very same night, Walt would go on to watch Jane asphyxiate on her own vomit.
Jesse meets a woman at NA who turns out to be the sister of the kid who shot Combo.
Tortuga was a victim of the Cousins.
One Dose Fits All: In "Salud", Gus proffers Don Eladio of the Mexican cartel a bottle of poisoned tequila, which he serves to Gus and his men, and also takes a shot himself (Gus has already taken an antidote to minimize the effects, and shortly afterwards makes himself sick). Sometime later, the Don and all of his men drop dead within a few seconds of each other, despite the differences in size between them (the man standing guard outside the bathroom when Gus is making himself sick is easily twice the size of the Don himself, for example).
One Steve Limit: Averted. Gus' doctor in "Crawl Space" is apparently named Barry Goodman according to the credits, despite having no relation to Saul whatsoever. Since Saul (real name McGill) changed his name to Goodman to seem Jewish, this makes sense. Jews are thought to be good doctors as well as lawyers.
In addition to the Victor who is Gus's enforcer, Victor is also the name of Walt's lung surgeon.
The Oner:
In the final scene of the episode "Bug," Jesse begs Walt to teach him the full formula, going through a long, tortured explanation of how Gus wants him to teach it to the cartel in Mexico, all shot in one take. Quite an acting tour de force by Aaron Paul.
Also, the final shot of "Crawl Space."
When Jesse has his first shoot of heroin and is shown levitating off of his bed.
Only a Flesh Wound: Averted. Injuries and healing times are depicted generally quite realistically on this show. Hank's road to recovery is unusually (but realistically) long and grueling; he's still limping in season five.
Only Bad Guys Call Their Lawyers:
Gus tries to avert suspicion from himself in Season 4 by coming to answer questions from the DEA without a lawyer present.
Mike also waives his right to have an attorney present when questioned by Hank and Gomez in "Madrigal".
In "Buried", Hank's attempt to invoke this trope is what causes Skyler to realize he's more interested in catching Walt than protecting her.
Only Sane Man:
Walt thinks he's this, because he's the only one who hasn't forgotten the drug business is just that, a business.
Mike clearly thinks he is, always behaving rationally on the job and looking annoyed when people start going off the rails.
Out of Focus: Used to create the twist ending in Season 4.
Outside-Genre Foe: One of Walt's major advantages is that the career criminals he deals with expect him to act like a career criminal.
Overt Rendezvous: Drug deals take place in public places, but for another reason in addition to secrecy: if negotiations go badly, people are less likely to shoot each other in public in broad daylight. Walt, in the first drug deal he participates in, sets it in an abandoned junkyard because that's where drug deals take place in the movies. He gets screwed.
Pac Man Fever:
Averted in one episode. Jesse plays Sonic & Sega All-Stars Racing with a girl in a realistic manner; i.e., no button-mashing.
And again when playing the two-player mode of Sonic the Hedgehog (2006) of all things.
Averted again in Season 4 when Badger and Skinny Pete discuss differences in the zombies of Resident Evil, Call of Duty: World at War, and Left 4 Dead with actual references to the games' content. Skinny Pete mentions that Leon is the last man on earth.
Played straight in "Problem Dog", where Jesse is seen playing Rage. He's playing the mobile version (an on-rails shooter version of the console game's Mutant Bash TV missions), with a light gun, on his TV.
Parking Payback: In the season 1 episode "Cancer Man", Walt circles a parking lot in order to cash a check at the bank for his cancer treatment. When one finally becomes available, he is about to pull in to it when a red BMW with the license plate "KEN WINS" races into the spot before him. Walt rages indignantly, but the suit wearing driver ignores him completely while obnoxiously talking into his headset. When Walt finally finds a spot, he walks into the bank only to find "Ken" there, still loudly yakking on his phone, to the intense annoyance of everyone there. Later in the same episode, Walt sees the same car parked outside a gas station. He shoves a wet squeegee in between the battery terminals of the BMW and nonchalantly walks away while the car bursts into flames.
Papa Wolf: Do not make fun of Walter Jr. in front of his dad. The way that Walter Sr. put that Jerk Jock on his ass and delivered the poetic justice "having trouble walking?" line.
Walt does not take kindly to threats against his family. Gus threatened to kill his son and infant daughter. Two episodes later, he got half of his face blown off with a pipe bomb.
Parodic Table of the Elements: The logo plays with the periodic-table boxes for Bromine (Br) and Barium (Ba). An element is also highlighted in each actor's name in the opening credits.
Incidentally, some episodes have the credit with "Ch" highlighted. No such element had that atomic symbol as of the time the show was in production. May be a backhanded reference to the methyl group, but the H should be capitalized.
Parental Substitute: One of the darkest examples possible, to the point of possibly being a subversion. Due to his rocky relationship with his parents, Jesse Pinkman constantly seeks the approval of his former high school chemistry teacher and current partner in the meth business, Walter White. Walter does truly care for Jesse, as he always goes out of his way to protect him, but mixes this care with horrible psychological abuse, emotional blackmail, and manipulation.
Parting-from-Consciousness Words: In Season 2 finale "ABQ", as Walt is going under sedation for cancer surgery, Skyler asks him where his cell phone is. A groggy Walt mumbles "Which one?". This makes Skyler realize that Walt was lying about having a second cell phone, and leads her to unravel the whole tangled web of lies Walt's been telling her ever since he started cooking meth.
A Party, Also Known as an Orgy: Jesse holds quite a few of these. In Season 4 he has a constant, increasingly out of control party at his house 24 hours a day because he can't stand being alone for even a few hours.
Past Victim Showcase: Gus Fring likes to screw with Tio Salamanca's head, even going as far as personally delivering Don Eladio's Ojo de Dios pendant to him after killing him in "Salud".
Pet the Dog: Walt and his relationship with Jesse. Jesse has a few moments too.
Todd spares Walt's life, apologizes for his loss as genuinely as can be expected in the situation, and leaves him with one of his cash barrels. Granted, it is only eleven of Walt's hard-earned eighty million dollars, but Todd could simply ask his uncle to shoot Walt dead.
The Pete Best: In-universe. Walt co-founded a multi-billion dollar chemical firm called Gray Matter, but early on had a falling out with his partners and sold his shares for a piddling sum of money. The full extent to which this eats away at him only becomes completely clear in Season 5.
Physical Therapy Plot: Hank is grievously wounded by two assassins and briefly comatose; when he wakes up he needs rigorous physical therapy to relearn how to walk, a process that takes up almost two full seasons. At first Hank is very self-pitying and borderline verbally abusive to his wife Marie, but after becoming convinced the drug manufacturer "Heisenberg" is still at large, he applies himself harder to his therapy, eventually able to walk again (albeit with a limp he carries through the rest of the series).
The Pirates Who Don't Do Anything: Despite being billed as a white supremacist group, Jack and company don't actually say or do anything to suggest they hold such views, excluding at one point shooting down the idea of outsourcing a hit to another group with a mention of purity.
Playing Sick: Walt's fugue state, his excuse for being AWOL for several days when he and Jesse get stuck in the desert.
Poisonous Friend: Very few relationships in this series operate without a dash of something iffy on one side or another. But, the biggest, most poisonous one you're probably ever likely to see in detail in any medium can be found between Walter and Jesse. Each manages to be a detrimental influence on the other in different ways, although the balance of power is usually in Walter's hands (but, not exclusively so). Their relationship is so poisonous, it has a incidental body count of its own well into triple figures when you tot up the lives lost in a related air accident, let alone all the other lives left ended or just wrecked in its wake.
Police Are Useless: Occasionally law enforcement can be seen in the background while a crime is being committed.
Jesse talks a female gas station cashier into accepting meth as payment — with a police officer in line behind him.
Jesse is kidnapped by Gus's men and hustled into a moving van just as 2 officers walk by.
The Aryans pull a nasty and very successful home invasion on Skyler and Holly despite two DEA agents keeping the house under surveillance.
Considering the series as a whole, the enormous resources which the APD, the DEA and whatnot poured into shutting down Heisenberg and his associates accomplished very little because New Mexico's authorities are almost always at least one step behind the bad guys they're chasing. When they finally do manage to track Heisenberg down, it's primarily due to his own vanity/carelessness, combined with the stubbornness of one single DEA officer who's risking his career by continuing the hunt.
Pooled Funds: In "Buried", two Mooks sent to fetch Walt's giant cube of cash take a moment to lie down on the money and relax before loading it into barrels.
Poor Communication Kills:
When Gonzo gets himself killed, the DEA raids Tuco's headquarters. Walt and Jesse incorrectly believe that Tuco is killing any witness to No Doze's murder, while Tuco believes that Gonzo disappeared and sold him out. As a result, Walt and Jesse make a plan to kill Tuco, while Tuco kidnaps Walt and Jesse and wants them to go to Mexico with him to cook Meth.
The only reason Mike dies in Season 5.
Marie warns Hank about this in Season 5 when he's investigating Walt solo, without telling the department. If the DEA catches up to Walt, Hank will look complicit; she doesn't point out that if Walt comes after Hank, he and Marie are the only ones who know his secret.
Pop-Cultured Badass: Saul Goodman casually makes pop culture references in most of his dialogue.
Pragmatic Villainy: Averted by Walt on a number of occasions. Hank is sure that Gale was Heisenberg, meaning all Heisenberg's crimes will be blamed on him, and Walt actually talks him out of it, convincing Hank that Gale may have just been an apprentice and the real Heisenberg could still be out there. Later, Walt passes up the chance to earn an easy risk free $5 million — more money than he originally wanted to make — for their leftover methylamine, because he wants to carry on making crystal meth, with all that risks that entails.
Precision F-Strike: Occasionally used despite being blanked out for broadcast on basic cable.
This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Word of God states that they were only allowed one f-bomb per season (or half season), so each instance was placed specifically to fit this trope.
In the pilot, Walt delivers one to Bogdan when he quits the car wash: "Fuck you and your eyebrows!"
In "Crazy Handful of Nothin'", after Walt demonstrates his fulminated mercury is not meth: "ARE YOU FUCKIN' NUTS?!"
Early in the same episode: "Oh, come on, Jesus! Just grow some fucking balls!"
In "Peekaboo", Walt says "fuck you" to Gretchen.
"I.F.T": "I fucked Ted."
"Bug": "Get the fuck out of here and never come back."
"Face Off": "F-U-C-"
"Say My Name" "Shut the fuck up and let me die in peace."
"Ozymandias": My name is ASAC Schrader, and you can go fuck yourself.
"Granite State": "I'm not doing one more cook for you psycho fucks!"
Pre-Mortem One-Liner: A somewhat humorous example; in "Fly", Walt quips "Say goodnight" right as he's about to hit the fly...only for all of the lights in the superlab to go out when Jesse shuts off the main circuit breaker to the lab.
Present-Day Past: There are few references to exactly when the show is supposed to be taking place, but the time frame is two years — the show kicks off with Walt's 50th birthday, and the last few episodes take place around his 52nd birthday. However, there are a few anachronisms that don't match this time frame; Walt has a 2007 handicapped sticker on his car in Season 1, and Season 5 includes an offhand comment about the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011, which requires a time frame of four years. Vince Gilligan has admitted that some of these anachronisms are goofs.
Gilligan: In a perfect world, this show is somewhat timeless, and people will watch it and think of it as the present.
Pretender Diss: Walter White aspires to be every bit the cunning, dignified drug lord as Gustavo Fring, not realizing that his own pride, stubbornness, and recklessness means he will never match up to Fring's legacy. Mike points this out after Walter kills Fring.
Mike: Just because you shot Jesse James, that don't make you Jesse James.
Pretty Little Head Shots: Averted; use a hollow point, and it gets messy. There's a messy one in "One Minute".
Previously On…: Used to recap events seen in previous episodes, as well as give us brief events that are never seen in the show.
Product Placement:
The game Rage is featured multiple times in season 4. At one point, there is a fight in Jesse's house, and in the scuffle Walter and Jesse crash into a shelf, causing its contents to spill and the box for Rage winds up on top of the pile.
Rage's product placement is particularly noteworthy due to the fact that the game hadn't yet been released. It's American release date was October 4th, 2011, meaning that only the Season 4 finale, "Face Off", was the only episode broadcast after it hit store shelves.
Jesse seems to be a Sonic the Hedgehog fan: other video games that Jesse plays include Sonic & Sega All-Star Racing and Sonic the Hedgehog (2006).
In "To'hajiilee", Walter visits Jesse's former girlfriend Andrea. To make small-talk, he awkwardly praises her son, Brock, for eating Froot Loops cereal.
Chrysler cars are prominently featured especially later in the show. Notable examples are Skyler's Jeep Grand Wagoneer, Hank's Jeep Commander, Mike's Chrysler New Yorker, and later in the series Walter trades in his iconic Pontiac Aztek for a Chrysler 300 and Walt Jr. received a PT Cruiser for his birthday only to later exchange it for a Dodge Challenger.
"Funyons are awesome!"
Denny's restaurant signs are prominently placed in the background, and Walt eats at one in the Cold Open for the Season 5 premiere.
Five-Hour Energy: sold at a money-laundering front business for a notorious meth kingpin near you!
Sony, everywhere. Often Vaio laptops are seen used by good characters such as Hank, and Gus uses a Samsung. I'm sure there's a couple of Bravias somewhere too. Considering Breaking Bad is affiliated with Sony Pictures, this is all a little uncanny. Averted with a couple of exceptions, such as a HP in season 5 and I think a Visio TV at Hank's in a clear shot.
Garmin. The tracking device on the methylamine barrel in a later season bears their logo, as does the navigator Walter uses to find the coordinates of the location he buries his money at.
Pride:
Walt's cardinal sin. He insists on making his money illegally rather than swallowing his pride and accepting charity from an estranged former colleague. He also takes too much pride in his meth-cooking skill, to the point that he risks his own safety several times to ensure that Heisenberg's reputation as the best meth cook around remains untarnished and intact.
Hank is on the verge of accepting that Gale was Heisenberg when Walt, not wanting Gale to get the credit for his own work, actually convinces Hank that he may have just been a subordinate and Heisenberg could still be out there.
Pride ends up killing Jack and his men when Jack insists on disproving Walt's accusation that Jesse is his partner rather than his slave. This distraction allows Walt to recover the trigger to his remote machine gun.
Ultimately leads to Gus’ death as well. Despite being so careful and generally putting his pride aside he insists on being the one to kill Hector when he thinks he’s cooperating with the DEA. Tyrus clearly suspects something isn’t right and suggests he be the one to kill Hector, but Gus insists. It lures him right into Walt’s trap.
Protagonist Journey to Villain: The entire first four and a half seasons of the series are dedicated to Walter's journey from kindly high school teacher to ruthless drug lord. Showrunner Vince Gilligan states that his goal with Walter was to "turn Mr. Chips into Scarface."
Publicly Discussing the Secret: Walt and Gus have a conversation about their meth business in a hospital lobby crowded with DEA agents and other Law enforcement personnel.
Punch-Clock Villain:
Mike, a loving grandfather and hitman for a meth kingpin. Don't make him beat you till your legs don't work.
Walt and Jesse become examples as clock-in and clock-out meth manufacturers for Gus, despite being comparatively moral people. It's lampshaded by Jesse. As they walk in to the industrial laundromat that houses their hidden meth lab, he sees the line of workers punching a clock and says, "I'm surprised he doesn't make us do that."
Gonzo. We don’t see much of him, but he seems pretty good natured and wants to at least give No Doze a proper burial since it seems “Christian.” Also when Walt and Jesse both seem shocked and feel they need to intervene during the No-Holds-Barred Beatdown of No Doze he quickly shakes his head at them and makes sure they don’t get involved, but the look on his face seems to suggest he doesn’t want them to be next.
Punny Name: Saul Goodman. A play on the phrase "S'all good, man."
Pyrrhic Victory: Walt manages to build a massive nest egg for his children, but he has effectively destroyed his family in the process. Hank is dead, their house is gone, and Walt Jr. and Skyler don't want him around anymore.
Pyrrhic Villainy: Walt's obsession with amassing wealth to help his family slowly disintegrates his family over the course of the show. This is brought to the fore with the flashes forward in the fifth season, showing how Walt's life is ruined and he's completely alone.
The Quiet One: The Salamanca brothers barely ever speak, their favorite form of communication being a slow shared glance that gives a creepy impression of Twintuition.
Radish Cure: In "Box Cutter," the season 4 premiere, when Victor reveals that he has learned how to make Walt's meth and is ready to replace him if need be, and Gus responds by violently killing Victor in front of Walter. Gus does this in reponse to Walt having killed Gale at the end of season 3, showing Walt that if he wants to gain personal security through murder and violence, that's exactly what he'll get.
Rage Against the Reflection: Walt, after finding out he's in remission.
Ramming Always Works: Hank only has a few seconds to react before he's about to be shot, so he just puts the SUV in reverse and rams the guy into another car. It works.
Rapid-Fire "Shut Up!": In "Hazard Pay", Skyler is at her wits' end over Walt moving back into the house, so when Marie scolds her over her smoking habit, it proves to be the Rage Breaking Point that pushes her into a nervous breakdown:
Skyler: Shut up.
Marie: What? I'm sorry, please don't speak to me like that. I am simply saying that—
Skyler: Will you shut up.
Marie: Hey-
Skyler: Shut. The hell. Up. [Shouting] Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
Marie: Skyler- Please, stop- I'm-
Skyler: Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! [Begins to cry]
Real Life Writes the Plot:
The 2007 writers' strike meant only eight episodes could be shot for season 1, instead of 15 or 16. This resulted in numerous changes to the show; most notably, Jesse (who was originally scripted to die at the end of the season) was kept around.
The house used as Jesse's house was sold during season two, so they made do with a set of the kitchen for a couple episodes (with the RV blocking the view out the window) before Jesse's parents kick him out. In the next season, they were able to use it again and Jesse moves back in.
Krazy-8 was going to be killed in the pilot, but was kept around for two more episodes just because everyone loved working with his actor, Maximino Arciniega, so much. Arciniega's name was eventually used as that of Gus' partner in meth production.
Tuco Salamanca was originally slated to be the Big Bad of Season 2, but his actor, Raymond Cruz, decided that the part had become too exhausting for him and asked for Tuco to be killed off. Cruz' ongoing contract as a cast member on The Closer very likely contributed to his decision.
Reality Ensues:
Many, many examples. Everything from an undercover cop abusing the myth that police must tell them that they are cops if directly asked to a bunch of cops were blown up by a bomb stuffed into a tortoise. This show likes to use reality to beat its audience into a bloody pulp.
"Ozymandias" is this trope to the whole series. As Walt finds out too late, you can't deal drugs without ruining your family.
Doesn't matter how good he's proved at Batman Gambit or Xanatos Speed Chess or Indy Ploy, Walt can't do anything to stop Uncle Jack and his Aryan crew from taking his eighty million dollars for themselves. They have guns and he doesn't.
Hits especially hard in "Granite State": In the previous episode, when Walt called Skyler as the police listened in, he played himself up as a tyrannical druglord who scared Skyler into working with him, thus ensuring the police won't think of her as a willing accomplice. Unfortunately, when Walt flees from New Mexico, the fact that she has no idea where he is means the DEA will still prosecute her. All this on top of the fact that his family will forever be haunted by his crimes and his home and whatever he wasn't able to take with him has been RICO'd by the authorities.
From the same episode: the subject of a nationwide manhunt will NOT be able to live a life of luxury, no matter how much money he has. Not to mention having to live in a state of constant paranoia over possibly getting caught.
Reality Has No Subtitles: Most of the Spanish dialogue gets this treatment.
Reality Is Unrealistic: Many people complained that Gus' death scene, in which he walks out of Héctor's room and straightens his tie with half his face blown off before falling over dead, was over-the-top. In truth, bombing victims do often survive briefly, and sometimes do weird things like calmly walk around looking for their own severed limbs, before they bleed to death. The body can behave strangely when it's in shock.
"The Reason You Suck" Speech:
A rather unexpected one by Saul's secretary, a background character who had barely said two words throughout the entire show:
Saul's secretary: Your partner and you are in danger?! Whoop-di-freaking-do! Why do you think Saul is not here? And how is this news, exactly? The two of you being in danger?! After doing something idiotic! You are such a pain in my ass, you know that? You're the reason I got to go on unemployment for god knows how long. I was at least looking forward to getting out of here in the next half hour, but noooo!!! Now I got to wait around all day for a plate glass guy to fix this door!
Mike delivers a whirlwind one to Walt near the end of "Say My Name", complete with pointing out his Fatal Flaw. Walt takes it about as well as you would expect, and it seems to be what pushes him over the edge to shoot Mike.
Mike: All of this falling apart is on you. We had a good thing, you stupid son of a bitch! We had Fring, we had a lab, we had everything we needed, and it all ran like clockwork. You could have shut your mouth, cooked, and made as much money as you ever needed! It was perfect, but no. You just had to blow it up. You, and your pride and your ego!
The speech Hank dishes to Walt at the end of "Blood Money" is nothing short of this.
Hank: You killed ten witnesses to save your sorry ass. You bombed a nursing home. Heisenberg. Heisenberg! You lying, two-faced sack of shit!
Walter Junior to Skyler, after her banalities about the seat belt: "You're shittin' me, right? If all this is true and you knew about it, then — then you're as bad as him!"
Junior to Walt in "Granite State", when Walt tries to send him money:
Junior: ...you killed Uncle Hank! YOU KILLED HIM! What you did to Mom, you asshole! You killed Uncle Hank-Just shut up! Just shut up! YOU KILLED UNCLE HANK! YOU KILLED HIM! What you did-just shut up! SHUT UP! Will you just-just leave us alone, you asshole! Why are you still alive?! Why don't you just-just die already?! JUST DIE!
Reckless Gun Usage: Walt pretty much anytime he's carrying his .38 Snub. Specifically, he seems to have no concept of trigger discipline. Of course, this is justified because he is a stressed out chemistry teacher, rather than some bad ass gunslinger.
Redemption Equals Death: Walt, after making amends with Jesse and Skyler, plans to end his life this way by letting the former shoot him. After he refuses, and noticing the bullet in his torso, Walt instead bleeds out and dies in the Neo-Nazi meth lab. It's not a perfect example, as he is noticeably unapologetic about his decisions throughout the series.
Recycled Premise: Not exactly the same, but the starting premise of the show (mild-mannered middle-class suburbanite turns to drug dealing in order to support their family because of financial troubles and winds up out of their depth) is sufficiently similar to Weeds that Vince Gilligan admitted that he wouldn't have bothered to create the show had he been familiar with Weeds beforehand. Safe to say that Breaking Bad is a lot darker and grimmer than Weeds had ever gotten.
Red Oni, Blue Oni: The show plays around with this. For starters, Jesse and Walt epitomize recklessness (youth) vs. calculation (experience). Hank and Walt similarly reflect this, mainly with the former's direct, almost obnoxious way of dealing with his family and job. However, Jesse plays Blue when dealing with his less smart cohorts Badger and Skinny Pete. Walt and Gus also flip this around: the first acts more out of emotion and concern for his family and (sometimes) Jesse. The latter, who has no emotional attachments the audience knows of (or at least living ones), conducts business the way only a cold-blooded monster would, taking extreme caution to keep his respectable businessman facade while not minding his underlings' (or anyone else's) deaths to keep his outfit operating.
Red Herring:
Until the series finale, ricin has not been used to successfully kill a single person since it was introduced all the way back in season 2. It got a lot of false starts though.
When the DEA first looks into Gus Fring, Hank notes that they can't find anything at all about him before he emigrated from Chile to Mexico in 1986. Later, Mike and Gus discuss the possibility of the feds finding out about Gus's background. It seems as if this will be a plot point. It never is.
When Walt arranges for he and Jesse to discuss Brock's poisoning, Jesse sees a bald man in the distance who he thinks is a hitman. It's actually just a bystander.
Refuge in Audacity:
After Jesse tries to donate his drug earnings to Mike's granddaughter, Walt attempts to dissuade him by insisting that Mike is "perfectly capable of taking care of his own granddaughter." Of course, Walt killed Mike and dissolved his body with hydrofluoric acid. Walt must know that Jesse can see through this, because he spends quite a while pleading for Jesse to believe him despite his well-deserved reputation for being a Consummate Liar.
Walt's "confession" he gives Hank, reframing everything he did as "Heisenberg" as being on Hank's orders. It's a very consummate form of blackmail.
Gus is a prominent pillar of the community and a friend to the local police and DEA. After the murder attempt on Hank, he even donates free chicken to all the officers in the hospital.
Released to Elsewhere: After Walter kills Mike he lies to Jesse and tells him that Mike left town safely. Well, actually he didn't lie, when Jesse asked about Mike Walt said that he was "gone".
Retirony: Inverted with Hank in season 3. Played straight with Mike in season 5.
Revealing Cover-Up: Lydia suggests that Mike kill 11 potential witnesses, but he tells her this is not how things are done in the real world. She later tries it anyway, adding Mike to the list.
Reverse Whodunnit: A show of one.
Rewatch Bonus:
Getting greater insight into Walter's motivations can put scenes and conversations from earlier in the show, going all the way back to the pilot episode, into a whole new light. The same thing goes to any other scene, when you know the character's fate.
Better Call Saul provides all kinds of new tidbits about Saul, Mike, Tuco, Hector, and more. See all three Hindsight categories above for some of the biggest bonuses there.
A very subtle one in Season 4 "End Times". As Walt is sitting by his pool clearly realizing that his options are running out he starts spinning the gun which stops and points at him twice in a row. Then on the third spin it points at the Lilly of the Valley plant and Walt clearly starts thinking about something before the scene cuts away. It should be noted that there is nothing indicating that the plant is Lilly of the Valley and that only someone with lots of knowledge would be able to identify it and know that it's toxic.
Riddle for the Ages: Who is Gustavo Fring? Beyond a few references to possibly being ex-Chilean military, none of his personal history or his reasons for fleeing his home country are ever revealed (and since his documents were forged, Gustavo Fring likely isn't even his real name). Even in Better Call Saul, nothing personal about him is revealed except for his sharing a childhood story with (an unconscious) Tio Salamanca.
Roaring Rampage of Revenge: Gustavo's whole life since entering America seems to have been one long plan to position himself for revenge against the cartels. His final coup is quite impressive. He also visits Salamanca regularly to gloat about it.
Robbing the Dead: After killing a Los Pollos Hermanos truck driver, Gaff and his crew of cartel buttonmen casually eat the driver's lunch while waiting for the remaining guards to suffocate on the carbon monoxide fumes they are pumping into the trailer. Punctuated with a very dark Pet the Dog moment where Gaff gives an associate the driver's sandwich from the lunchbox, settling for a simple apple for himself.
Rule of Symbolism: To retroactively drive home how similar Walt and Gus are to each other, Gus' collapse upon Max's death and Walt's collapse upon Hank's death are framed in the exact same way.
Running Gagged: Barrels of acid being used to dissolve dead bodies becomes more and more common as the series progresses and is shown in a more comedic way each time. Until they have to dissolve the motorbike and body of a young boy Todd murders. The dark joke most definitely stops being funny there and is only implied to be used on Mike later on.

Breaking Bad / Tropes S to Z
Sad Clown: Hank suffers from panic attacks and later PTSD, but he hides his suffering with his gregarious personality.
Sarcastic Confession:
In "No Mas", Hank is helping Walter move out of his home after a falling out with his wife. One black duffel bag is heavy, and Walter isn't supposed to do any heavy lifting. Hank insists, and feels the heft.
Hank: What have you got in there, cinder blocks?
Walter: [without a drop of irony] Half a million in cash.
Hank: That's the spirit!
It happens again in season four, when Hank jokingly speculates that the "W.W." dedication in Gale Boetticher's notebook stands for "Walter White", to which Walt "confesses". Hank flashes back to this moment in Season 5, when he finds a copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass book with a dedication from "G.B." to "my other favourite W.W." in Walt's bathroom. Only this time, he's not laughing.
A version occurs in the mid-season 5 finale, where Lydia says that she's afraid to give Walt the list of the 10 people who need to be killed, because if she does that, Walt has no use for her anymore. Walt responds, mocking her: "So, you put that list in my hands, and in your mind, I immediately just murder you? Right here in this restaurant, right here in this public place?!" As it turns out, that's exactly what he was planning (killing her with poison).
Say My Name: This show is the trope's quote source, from Season 5A's "Say My Name".
Walt: Now... say my name.
Declan: (Quietly) Heisenberg.
Walt: You're goddamn right.
Scenery Porn: This show has done quite a lot for Albuquerque, New Mexico's tourism market, showing off the scenery of this part of New Mexico.
Seamless Spontaneous Lie: When Skyler needs to justify the large amount of cash Walter earned from making meth, she spins a tale about Walt gambling that also explains the fallings-out they had. It's so good Walter himself begins to listen in awe.
Sean Connery Is About to Shoot You: The final shot of season 3 has Jesse pointing the gun at Gale from an angle, but it gradually pans so that Jesse is pointing the gun at the camera just as he fires.
Self-Fulfilling Prophecy: Walt is paranoid when working with Gus that he has listening bugs planted throughout the superlab. After falling out of Gus's favor by having Gale killed, Gus does one better and sets up surveillance cameras in the lab.
Sensitive Guy and Manly Man: Walter has this dynamic going on with two other characters:
He's the Manly Man to Jesse's Sensitive Guy. Walt's cold and calculating personality contrasts with Jesse's compassion, empathy, and uninhibited vulnerability.
Conversely, he's the Sensitive Guy to Hank Schrader's Manly Man, at first. Hank is brash, crude and boisterous, an avid sports fan and gun enthusiast, and his work as a DEA agent often puts him in danger. Walt is a mild-mannered and milquetoast high school chemistry teacher, much more of an intellectual and something of a dork. As the show progresses, however, they both shift around the spectrum: Hank reveals an increasing amount of emotional problems and insecurities, as well as some nerdy interests, while Walter becomes increasingly cold, ruthless and dangerous.
Serendipitous Survival:
While the Cousins are waiting in Walter's bedroom for him to finish his shower, they get a text from Gus telling them to meet him right away, and they leave. Had Gus not sent that text when he did, or if the Cousins had been about 20 seconds faster in the house, or had decided to kill Walt in the shower instead of waiting for him to finish, Walter would've been murdered.
A behind-the-scenes example occurred during the filming of season one. Aaron Paul was standing by the RV, which had a tarp of the roof that was being held in place by a large rock. He moved out of the way for an unrelated reason moments before a large gust of wind blew the rock off the RV, landing right where he'd been standing.
Series Fauxnale: Season 4's ending. While the show's writers knew that it'd probably be coming back for a fifth season, there was just enough doubt lingering over a renewal that they decided to wrap up the major story arcs that had been going until that point, while leaving plenty of avenues open for future stories. If you do truly want a Happy Ending of this show, it is highly recommended to stop here.
Serious Business: You can't have a fly in your meth lab. It taints the product.
Sexy Discretion Shot: In "Green Light", we hear Skyler moaning as she has sex with Ted for the second time as the camera pans over a series of photos, but on the last photo, you can just make out a blurry reflection of Skyler riding Ted.
Shaped Like Itself: In "Sunset", a panicked Walt is talking to Saul on the phone on how he can hide his RV meth lab from Hank. He states the RV is "the size of a... the size of... it's RV sized!"
Sherlock Scan: Hank is a very smart investigator who manages to pick up a lot through keen observation. For example, he is able to determine that the mysterious Heisenberg has book smarts but no street smarts by viewing the tape of his chemical factory robbery. He also grows suspicious of Lydia after noticing that her shoes are mismatched — a good sign that the investigation is causing her more stress than she lets on.
She's Got Legs: Lydia. She gets a lot of Feet First Introductions, and in general, the camera spends a disproportionate amount of time focusing on her ankles.
Shoo Out the Clowns: Comic relief characters Badger and Skinny Pete start to make significantly less frequent appearances as of season 4.
Shoot the Dog: In "Ozymandias", a thoroughly-compromised Walt drops almost completely into his Heisenberg persona in his last call to Skyler, which it's implied he knows is being monitored by the police. He yells at her and abuses her worse than he ever has in the series, coming across as a deranged psychopath, but in doing so he also takes the full weight for everything that's happened, absolving Skyler of her complicity in his crimes and making her look like far more of a straightforward victim.
Shouldn't You Stop Stealing?: Thoroughly explored with Walt. His initial attempts to start up a meth business end up catastrophically, with him forced to kill two people. Soon afterwords, his former colleagues offer to financially support him as he undergoes treatment for his cancer, but he brushes them aside due to his pride and resentment towards them. After committing to the meth trade, once he achieves his original goal, he attempts to make good on his initial promise to get out of the business. His cancer temporarily going into remission means he's not going to die when he expected to (a rare case where somebody gets upset that they're not dying of cancer) and Skyler doesn't just accept the "I did it for my family" motive at face value. He goes back to cooking at one point because being the world's best meth cook is the only thing he still has pride in. Lampshaded in season 5 when Jesse points out that they have an opportunity to sell their raw materials, risk-free, for $5 million each, far more than Walt ever set out to make in the first place. Brought up again not long after when Skyler shows Walt all the cash he had earned, more than she could count, kept in a storage container, and asks him "How big does this pile have to be?"
Shout-Out:
Walter's choice of that black porkpie hat might have been inspired from Gene Hackman.
Juan Bolsa: Juan is Spanish for John. Bolsa means "bag" in Spanish. John + Bag = "Johnny Sack".
The name of the last episode of season one is "A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal", after a line from Fargo.
Looking for a weapon, Jesse walks along a set of shelves picking up progressively more intimidating implements, like Butch in Pulp Fiction. Guess they were out of katanas.
In "Phoenix", Jane explains away her bloodshot eyes by saying she's exhausted from working on a tattoo complex enough for the Sistine Chapel.
In "Caballo Sin Nombre", the prospect of Walter giving up cooking meth is compared to Michelangelo giving up painting.
Another Pulp Fiction reference: "Box Cutter" ends with Walt and Jesse getting breakfast in a diner, wearing t-shirts after their other clothes got covered in Victor's blood, with Jesse getting a plate piled high with pancakes and bacon while Walt just settles for coffee.
Ted bangs his head on a table, sending several oranges falling onto his body. In the flash-forward that opens "Blood Money", Carol the neighbor drops a grocery bag full of oranges after seeing Walt again. Remember that the presence of oranges in The Godfather indicated when someone was about to have their day messed up.
Vince Gilligan stated that his goal with Walter is to turn Mr. Chips into Scarface. In "Hazard Pay", Walt and his son watch the "say hello to my little friend" scene in Scarface. This might be setting up a later shout-out when we finally find out why Walt's buying that giant machine gun.
The collar◊ on Walt's blue shirt in "Buyout" (the episode where he gives his "empire business" speech) is a bit larger than the ones he usually wears, a subdued resemblance to Tona Montana's flashy shirts. Walt's sitting pose during the dinner and living room scenes are also reminiscent of Tony's sitting pose◊.
In season 5 episode "Dead Freight" there are actually shout outs to quite a few movies (and, cutely, the line "You've been watching too many movies"). Hank says they're going to watch Heat. Todd's murder of Drew Sharp at the end of the episode is like Waingro's execution of a guard during the armored car robbery. Mike's speech about having to kill witnesses is similar to Vincent Hanna's comment while investigating the armored car robbery scene about how Neil McCauley and his crew didn't hesitate for a second to kill the other two guards once Waingro shot the first guard, because "why leave a living witness?" The ending is also a double-shout out to Once Upon a Time in the West and The Great Train Robbery. A few more subtle shots here and there shout out to other films, such as High Noon.
Saul compares his services to what Tom Hagen did for Vito Corleone. When Walter replies that he's no Vito, Saul retorts that Walt is Fredo.
In telling Skyler not to talk to the cops (first or second episode of Season 5A), Saul says "When you talk to the cops, just be thinking one thing: Hogan's Heroes. Remember Sergeant Schultz?" [Skyler's blank look] "I see nothing! I know NOTHING!"
When Jesse is sent to the hospital and badly mauled, Saul jokes about his bruised appearance by doing a reference to Rocky.
In "Ozymandias", Hank's death is a reference to a similar death in The Wild Bunch, when Bishop kills a man in the middle of saying "Just do it alrea—" (or similar)
From the same scene in "Ozymandias": Hank claiming Jack made his decision "ten minutes ago" majorly parallels Adrian "Ozymandias" Veidt's infamous "thirty-five minutes ago" line in Watchmen. Both situations give a hopeless vibe to the characters desperate to stop a horrifying event from happening (Walt preventing Hank's death, and Rorschach/Night Owl preventing Ozymandias from killing half of New York's population)... only for those tragic events to happen anyway.
In "Granite State", Charlie Rose, in his interview with Gretchen and Elliot Schwarz, mentions that Andrew Ross Sorkin wrote a New York Times column about Gray Matter's connection to Walt. Sorkin, who has called Breaking Bad his "favorite show", responded by writing an in-universe column about Gray Matter in Real Life.
In the final Talking Bad, Vince says that in "Felina", Walt's final reaction to Jesse — of wanting to kill him, but then realizing that he still cares about him (by shielding him with his body) — was directly inspired by John Wayne's finally finding Natalie Wood's character in The Searchers. Additionally, Walt's final look at Junior — watching him walk back into the home that he (Walt) cannot ever go home to again — may also be an allusion to the final shot of the same film.
Both Tuco's name and comically paranoid attitude is reminiscent to another Tuco we know.
In "Problem Dog", Walt Jr. complains to Hank that he only had his Dodge Challenger for 15 hours.
The bank used to deposit hazard pay for Gus's former employees is the Craddock Marine Bank, Fox Mulder's bank in several episodes of The X-Files, a series that Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan wrote 29 episodes for, and was a show runner.
Walt assembling a remote-controlled mount for an automatic BFG in the middle of nowhere, then installing it in the trunk of a car, is quite similar to a certain signature scene in The Jackal.
In "Rabid Dog", Saul compares Jesse to Old Yeller when he suggests to Walt that it might be time to have Jesse killed.
After a hard few days of partying in "Thirty-Eight Snub", Badger mentions that he feels like he's turning into a Sleestak.
Shown Their Work:
While the accuracy varies from episode to episode, the writers have clearly done some research into the chemistry involved in all of Walt's plans. A very subtle example is the first episode of season 5, when Walt is cleaning up after his bombmaking and picks up a bunch of wrappers from cold packs. Cold packs contain ammonium nitrate, a commonly used oxidizer and catalyst in manufacturing improvised bombs. Additionally, Bryan Cranston really was taught how to make methamphetamine by the show's DEA advisers, so he really did understand the chemistry behind it.
While it's a much smaller example than understanding an entire meth operation, every time Badger and Skinny Pete have any sort of sci-fi/"geeky" argument, the arguments they bring up are all valid, such as their multiple debates on Star Trek and the different types of zombies in video games like Resident Evil 4 and Left 4 Dead.
Siblings in Crime: The Salamanca brothers, Leonel and Marco.
Significant Anagram: The name of the last episode, "Felina", is not only an anagram of the word "Finale," but is also a shout-out to a song about a cowboy who returns to town when his lover Felina is captured, despite knowing he will be killed trying to rescue her.
The Simple Gesture Wins: During Elliot's birthday party, most of the guests bring extravagant presents. One guest gives Elliot a Stratocaster signed by Eric Clapton. Walt gives him a package of the dirt-cheap ramen noodles they subsisted on while they were working on their thesis. Elliot absolutely loves it, and gushes about how those noodles were responsible for his success.
Skeletons in the Coat Closet: Leather cowboy boots with skulls on the toes would look silly on some people. But on Leonel and Marco, they make them badass and creepy.
Slapstick: Used infrequently.
Jesse falling off the roof in season 1.
Walt falling off of the lab catwalk in "Fly", slamming into a tank and then dropping to the concrete floor below.
Ted Beneke tripping over a carpet, sliding across the polished floor and smashing head-first into a wall, with the camera lingering for quite some time on his prone body, then cutting to some of his fingers twitching slightly. Black Comedy at its finest.
Slavery Is a Special Kind of Evil: In a show full of all kinds of terrible people, the Neo-Nazi gang led by "Uncle" Jack is established as a Darker Shade of Black when they capture Jesse and treat him as a slave, forcing him to cook meth in terrible conditions.
Sliding Scale of Continuity: Level 5 (Full Lockout). Or, Two Years In The Life of Walter White. And boy, are they eventful ones.
Sliding Scale of Idealism vs. Cynicism: Definitely towards the cynical side. But being idealistic about this particular subject matter would be rather disingenuous.
Space Whale Aesop: The creators would have us believe that Walter is to blame for the Twist Ending of season 2, however indirectly. Ergo, the moral of the season is: don't deal drugs, kill people, and then fail to intervene when you find someone choking to death on her own vomit, because that will always lead to a chain of events that culminate in a mid-air collision which kills 167 people. Even Vince Gilligan lampshaded the Diabolus ex Machina in an interview.
Snowball Lie: Every lie Walt feeds Skyler in Seasons 1 thru 3.
Somebody Set Up Us the Bomb: Gus Fring fails to realize that Hector's wheelchair has been rigged with a bomb until a moment before it detonates. Cue Oh, Crap! moment.
Soundtrack Dissonance: As befits a series with The X-Files ancestry, the show is quite fond of this trope.
Used to great effect in "Half Measures," in which The Association's bouncy sunshine pop song "Windy" plays over a montage of Wendy the hooker's sad daily routine.
In "Gliding Over All", a soft and gentle crooner song (Nat King Cole's "Pick Yourself Up") is played while several loose ends are being shanked in their jails. Even better: in the same episode, a cooking and dealing montage is set to Tommy James and the Shondells' peace'n'love anthem, "Crystal Blue Persuasion".
Spiritual Successor: Breaking Bad is one for many Stepford Suburbia dramas about patriarchs trying to honor The American Dream but suffering a mid-life crisis on account of his failure. Predecessors include Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman, Sam Mendes' American Beauty and Nicholas Ray's Bigger Than Life.
It's also a spiritual successor to the Spaghetti Western Faccia a Faccia, about an asthmatic professor, played by Gian Maria Volonte, who bonds with an outlaw and becomes one himself, while the outlaw (played by Tomas Milian) finds some redemption.
Spiteful Spit: Jesse spits in Walt's face after Walt, arrested and handcuffed by Hank in "To'hajiilee", calls him a coward.
Splash of Color: The creepy scene that opens several episodes of Season 2 — someone in hazmat gear fishes a burnt teddy bear out of Walt's pool, two people lie on the front lawn in body bags — is shot in black and white, except for the teddy bear, which is pink.
Spousal Privilege: Brought up when Skyler decides to involve herself in Walt's criminal life.
Deconstructed in "Granite State". Skyler is left by herself to face Walter's legal consequences, and if she doesn't comply with some info she will be held accountable to some degree despite Walt's phone call. Skyler has nothing to exchange and is seized of all assets, including her home and car wash business. In "Felina", Walt gives her the location of Hank and Gomez's dead bodies to trade for a deal with a prosecutor for clearance of the crimes.
Staging an Intervention: Skyler calls the family over for an intervention to try to get Walt to take the chemotherapy treatment (and the money offered by Gretchen and Elliot to pay for it) for his cancer, since Walt was unwilling to do that.
Stalker Shot: In the Season 3 finale "Full Measure", Saul takes Walt to a laser tag arena that he's trying to get Walt to buy. Before they enter the building, a red car can be seen driving in the background and coming to a complete stop, and as they enter the building, the camera remains focused on the red car. The camera changes shot of the car to reveal Victor is tracking Walt as his reflection can be seen in the side view mirror. It turns out Walt and Saul suspected they were being tracked and only went to the arena to meet Jesse where he's being hidden so they can think up their next plan.
Steal the Surroundings: Two crooks steal an ATM. They are shown having difficulty actually breaking into the machine. And then it gets worse, as usual for the show.
Stealth Pun:
Saul Goodman = S'all good, man! Explicitly lampshaded in one of the 'Better Call Saul' promos for Season 4. Badger ends his account by saying that 'S'all good man, cause I called Saul Goodman.'
Walt takes the name Heisenberg as his pseudonym. So the show is all about Heisenberg's uncertainty principles.
Gus uses a Laundromat, the Lavandería Brillante, as a front for the superlab. Despite all the discussion of "money laundering" in other circumstances, no-one ever points out the irony of the situation.
Ted's company is named Beneke Fabricators. He has been illegally lying about his company's profits for years.
After a scene showing Hank being coddled by Marie, the camera cuts to his bedside table. On it is a small statue of a child riding on a pig's back. "On the pig's back" is an obscure saying meaning "to have it good".
In Saul Goodman's website, the page "Dress Like Saul" promotes clothes from a fictitious company called McGill and McGill's. Saul's real name (in the series) is Jimmy McGill.
Strange Minds Think Alike: In "A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal", Jesse criticizes Walt's choice of meeting with Tuco at a junkyard to make a deal; saying it's actually safer to make these types of deals in open and public areas. His go-to places were usually the "Taco Cabeza" or the mall. Moments later when Tuco and his gang arrive, he too questions the junkyard and asks "Was the mall closed?"
Stuffed into the Fridge: Both of Jesse's girlfriends, Jane and Andrea, are killed off in order to sink Jesse into deeper depths of anguish: Jane by overdose, Andrea by getting shot in the head by Todd Alquist.
Stupid Crooks: Jesse can't see the value in laundering his drug money through a legitimate tax paying business.
Jesse You want me to buy this place so that I can pay taxes? I'm a criminal, yo.
Stylistic Suck: Saul Goodman's commercials ("I better call Saul!") could not possibly be any cheesier.
Suicide by Cop: Subverted in the very first scene of the pilot. Walt prepares to commit suicide by cop, but they aren't coming.
Suicide Dare: In the finale, Walter asks Jesse to kill him. Jesse doesn't oblige, and tells Walter he should do it himself. Walter doesn't, and spends some time in the lab while he bleeds out and Jesse escapes.
Super Dickery: The Flash Forward shots at the beginning of most episodes almost always mean something entirely different in the context of the scene they actually happen later in the episode or season.
Suspicious Spending: Walt's attempting to justify his ability to pay his medical bills is a continuous problem. Finding ways to launder the money from his booming drug trade accounts for much of the conflict in many episodes.
Symbolism:
Season 5 frequently frames shots to put Jesse literally between Walt and Mike, making his metaphorical situation literal.
In the end, the one thing that causes Hank to realize the truth of Walt's crimes is the book that Gale gave Walt as a present, meaning that Walt is ultimately brought down posthumously by the (relatively) innocent man he had murdered to save his own ass.
Sympathetic Inspector Antagonist: Decorated DEA Agent Hank is always in pursuit of the elusive "Heisenberg"... his brother-in-law.
Take That, Audience!:
Walt's "The Reason You Suck" Speech to Skyler in "Ozymandias", taking every argument her haters have made against her and displaying how horrible they are. It looks like the Take That! has gone unnoticed, however, and the hatred continues.
To those who really dislike Skyler (for whatever reason), the scene comes across as more Villain Has a Point.
Walt's rant to Jesse when he was high on heroin and food stuff can be interpreted as criticising the younger viewers.
Taking the Heat:
Edward James Kilkelly does this for money. ("The outside hasn't been too kind to old Jimmy.")
Jesse took the heat for his younger over-achieving brother Jake after their housemaid found a joint that he smoked, and whose parents initially assumed it to be Jesse's.
Posthumously, Gale. Hank starts to believe Gale was Heisenberg, which actually seems to piss Walt off to no end.
Walt does this in a subtle manner in "Ozymandias" in his police tapped call towards Skyler when he claims that he committed all the crimes and built his own empire by himself, freeing her of any suspicion that she may have been involved in Walt's criminal activities.
Taking You with Me:
Hector's final confrontation with Gus.
In the finale, Walt's original intention when setting up the automatic machine gun to kill everyone in the supremacist gang's club house is this. Jesse is included in the count until Walt discovers what has been done to him. He tackles Jesse to the ground to distract the others and then activates the gun while shielding Jesse's body, taking a hit that eventually kills him.
Teeth-Clenched Teamwork: Walt and Jesse for the first few seasons. Later, Walt, Jesse, and Mike.
Tempting Fate:
When a strung-out meth-head says, "Call me a skank one more time," she is not issuing an invitation.
Don't brag to your wife you've been lying to for the past few months about the benefits of honesty. She might just admit to having an affair with her boss.
Jesse building a contraption to reach the ceiling in the lab and standing on top of it trying to swat a fly.
Tension-Cutting Laughter:
Tuco is the master of this.
Uncle Jack pulls it on Todd in "Granite State" when he asks him to spare Jesse's life. He stares him down, gun in hand, calling him a "piece of shit"... and then bursts out laughing and tousles his hair.
That Man Is Dead: An example of one character saying this about another. Gretchen Schwartz says during a television interview that while Heisenberg may still be out there, the Walter White she knew so many years ago is gone forever.
Theme Music Power-Up: A villainous example at the end of "Granite State": when Walt breaks out of his Despair Event Horizon by watching Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz insult his pride by claiming he had no hand in the success of Gray Matter, the extended intro theme kicks in and continues as we see the police close in on an empty bar.
There Are No Therapists: Walt is forced to see one after his fugue state incident, but it wasn't a psychological problem to begin with. After suffering a work-related trauma, Hank refuses to see a therapist, claiming that doing so would destroy his career. Skyler tells Marie that she is seeing a therapist, but that is a lie. The only aversion may be Marie herself, who says she sees a therapist for her kleptomania issues, but finds it frustrating that after discovering the truth about Walt, for Hank's sake she can't really share any of the details, without which there's not much she can say.
This Is for Emphasis, Bitch!: Jesse, especially at the first episodes. Much less frequent in later seasons.
Walter: [whispering] ...private domicile and I won't be harassed.
Jesse: This is my own private domicile and I will not be harassed. [beat] Bitch!
Aaron Paul even stated on Conan that every single "bitch" he said on the show was scripted, with the screenwriters precisely deciding when it would be appropriate for Jesse to say it.
Those Two Guys:
Badger and Skinny Pete become this after Combo's death in Season 3.
Huell and Kuby, Saul's "A-Team."
The two Deadpan Snarker detectives that interrogate Jesse about Brock's poisoning in season 4 and again about the drug money he's been throwing away in season 5.
Thwarted Coup de Grâce: Marco Salamanca has Hank at gunpoint, but decides it's "too easy" and goes to fetch an axe. While he's gone, Hank manages to retrieve and reload Leonel's gun, and shoots him in the head just as he's raising the axe, which lands edge-first in the pavement.
Tiger by the Tail: Walt could have just taken the money from Gretchen. But instead he got into selling drugs, either not realising or not caring just how dangerous it was going to be, and most of S1 and S2 plays this trope straight, as he gets in with increasingly volatile people. However, by Season 3, it's actually flipped around that Jesse, who got in with Walt thinking he was a timid chemistry teacher, seriously underestimated him.
Time Passes Montage: About three months pass during "Gliding Over All"'s second montage.
Title Drop:
In the first episode, Jesse uses the expression "break bad," and it also appears in one of the webisodes.
Plenty of the episodes have title drops. See, for example, Season 4, Episode 10 — "Salud".
The real-life phone number for Saul's firm asks the caller if the cops have accused them of "breaking bad."
In a Season 3 episode, Jesse's father declares "Breaking even's not so bad".
Tone Shift: Not only did the series gradually become Darker and Edgier over the course of the series, but the first season was primarily Black Comedy with a darkly satirical edge, an aspect of the show that had all but vanished by the second season, as the show developed into more of a straightforward tragic crime drama. Several critics remarked that the first season feels like a completely different show compared to the following seasons.
Too Dumb to Live: Ted. When he gets audited by the IRS, he does almost nothing to try to cover up his embezzlements. When he gets lucky enough to get money to pay off his taxes, he decides to buy a new Mercedes instead. After he finds out where the money came from, he decides to not even use it, because apparently money from gambling is worse than embezzlement. Finally, he's rendered quadriplegic because he tripped on his own rug.
Spooge, full stop... egging on his wife by ridiculing her as he works on cracking the ATM from the bottom with HIM UNDERNEATH isn't a very sound idea.
Took a Level in Badass: Several characters, most notably Walt and Jesse.
Took a Level in Jerkass: Walt, following his slow descent into evil.
The Topic of Cancer: The series revolves around the protagonist, Walter White, discovering during the pilot that he has terminal lung cancer. It is this discovery that kick-starts the action of the show.
Totally Radical: Veers towards this sometimes, particularly with the younger characters like Jesse, Skinny Pete and Combo. The writers seem to be under the impression that peppering every other line of dialogue with "mad", "bitch" and "yo" makes for convincing diction in its own right.
Tragedy: It's become a sort of modern codifier, with many literary and television critics even comparing it to Shakespeare's tragedies.
A Tragedy of Impulsiveness: The Show.
Train Job: Walt and company pull one in the episode "Dead Freight", plotting an elaborate heist in order to steal a load of methylamine from a freight train.
Tranquil Fury: Gus hardly ever even raises his voice, yet he's been on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge for years.
Trash the Set: Season 3 has Walt and Jesse crushing the RV, and Season 4 ends with them blowing up the laundromat superlab.
Translation: "Yes": A bit with Mike has him telling his target to see if a non-English speaking coworker is still in the building. He calls for her and she responds with a very long sentence. He helpfully clarifies "She said yes".
Trauma Conga Line: Everybody. If they're not dancing the Conga, then they're playing the tune. For example:
Hank suffers panic attacks, a bombing, and a near-fatal assassination attempt.
Jane's dad might take the cake. First he found out that his daughter relapsed into her old drug habit, then he finds her dead. When he goes back to work, he's distracted by his daughter's death and causes an airplane crash, killing hundreds of people. He attempts suicide, but he might have survived to suffer longer.
Things just keep getting worse for Jesse. And just when you think they can't possibly get any worse... they get worse.
Trespassing to Talk: Walter White confronts Gretchen and Elliot inside their house.
Tropaholics Anonymous: In Season 3, Jesse and his cronies attempt to infiltrate recovery meetings to find potential customers. In the end, none of them can bring themselves to actually sell anything to these people: "It's like shooting a baby in the face." In fact, Jesse's cronies end up actually going into recovery.
True Companions:
Walt and Jesse, until season 5B.
Walter: I've got this... nephew...
Jesse and Mike seem to have potential for this, until Walter kills Mike.
Tuco, Tio, and The Cousins make up an evil version.
Ultimate Evil: The cartel. We rarely get exposition on how they relate to the story, and we often see the results of their acts rather than such acts themselves — Tortuga and the decapitated head-turtle bomb incident, for instance. It's only in season 3 where they start taking an active role in the plot and we begin seeing glimpses of the inner workings of their organization.
Unexpected Inheritance: Skyler arranges through Saul for Ted to receive a large sum to pay off his debts to prevent her from being audited.
Unexplained Accent:
Benicio Fuentes, the cartel chemist, inexplicably has a prominent Home Counties accent. In Real Life, it's because his actor Carlo Rota is from London and, if The Boondock Saints is anything to go by, he's not great at doing accents that aren't his own.
In a Foreign Language example, many of the Spanish-speaking characters don't attempt to put on an accent other than their native one, which leaves the Mexican cartel kingpin Don Eladio sounding conspicuously Cuban.
Unflinching Walk:
The Cousins. No matter what's happening.
Walt does one after blowing up KEN WINS's car.
Gus does this after being the one to GET blown up.
Gus also does this straight into a hail of bullets. He guesses correctly that the cartel gunmen don't want to kill him.
Yet another one occurs right after Walt and Jesse blow up the superlab and before they pull the fire alarm to warn the laundry workers to escape.
Subverted when Walt sets up a car to explode and starts calmly walking away. But it takes longer than he was expecting, so eventually he just awkwardly sits down and waits for it.
Un-person: Walt's fear of becoming one kicks off the series finale. In the penultimate episode of the series, his family wants him to die, his former colleagues deny his contribution to Gray Matter, and his signature blue meth remains in the market despite Heisenberg's disappearance. Not for nothing is the tag for the final season "Remember My Name."
The Unreveal:
We never do find out if Gus ordered the murder of the child meth dealer, or whether Gus's other dealers did that on their own hook.
Just what led to Walt's disastrous decision to accept a $5000 buyout and leave Gray Matter is never explained, even when Walt admits to Jesse that the whole Gray Matter incident is the reason he wants to keep cooking meth. There are small hints here and there to why, such as the never-fully-explained rift in Gretchen and Walt.
This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Vince Gilligan eventually explained this one;
Walt left the company and their relationship because he felt inferior. ...He didn’t realize the girl he was about to marry was so very wealthy and came from such a prominent family, and it kind of blew his mind and made him feel inferior and he overreacted. He just kind of checked out.
Many things about Walt's backstory are left unexplained, such as why he became a high school chemistry teacher despite being an overqualified genius.
The Un-Smile: In "ABQ", as Junior is being interviewed about his successful charity website he set up for Walt, an offscreen Marie motions for Walt to smile, as he had a notable poker face. Walt's lips crease into the most uncomfortable and forced smile on the planet.
Unsettling Gender Reveal: The minisode "Wedding Day" (Marie and Hank's wedding, that is) shows Hank having a crisis over cheating on Marie the night before — specifically, he received a blowjob from a woman calling herself Joan Crawford, who was singing at a bar full of men called the Ivory Swallow. Hank never realizes what happened, but Walt puts two and two together.
Unspoken Plan Guarantee: After Hank kills Tuco, the audience isn't shown Walt and Jesse's plan to explain away their mysterious absence, so of course it goes off without a hitch.
Unwanted Gift Plot: Marie gives Skyler a white gold baby tiara for Holly at the baby shower in Season One. It turns out to be stolen when Skyler tries to return it.
Useless Security Camera: DEA Agent Hank Schrader is trying to interrogate a gas station clerk to find out who sold her some meth. When he finally realizes she knows nothing, he looks up and asks if the security camera is regularly on. It isn't. However, shortly thereafter, he finds a working security camera on the ATM outside.
Vanity License Plate: KEN WINS, LWYR UP, THECAPN, and GRAYMTR.
[Verb] This!: Both Walt and Jesse have an infrequent habit of grabbing their crotch and saying "X this!"
Verbal Tic: It's less emphasized in later seasons, yo, but Jesse has one, bitch.
Vertigo Effect: Done very briefly with Walt in the desert in "Ozymandias" after Hank gets shot.
Very Loosely Based on a True Story:
The mid-air collision at the end of Season 2 bears a few resemblances to a couple of real life events in Southern California history. The former is referenced by name during Walt's impromptu "speech" at the high school assembly in "No Mas". For irony, the Cerritos plane crash happened while the planes were under the control of an air traffic controller named Walter White.
The central regret of Walt's life — impulsively taking a $5000 buyout for his share of Gray Matter, then watching it grow into a $2 billion company — is reminiscent of Ronald Wayne, a co-founder of Apple. Wayne co-founded Apple Computers with Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in April 1976, but sold his share of the company back less than two weeks later for $800.
Villainous Breakdown:
Walt has one in "Crawl Space" when he begins laughing hysterically, though it's more of an anti-hero/villain breakdown.
Walt appears to have a truly vicious one in "Ozymandias" when he calls Skyler on the phone and lays into her with a snarling, vitriolic rant that makes it seem like any hint of love he ever showed for her was either a lie to begin with or had dissolved into hatred long ago. However, he knew the phone was being tapped, and it was mostly an act to convince the police that Skyler was a wholly innocent victim... but it remains ambiguous to the viewer (and to Skyler) how much, if any, of the stuff he said was a reflection of what he really thought. Certainly, parts of it are only exaggerations of criticisms he's previously made to her in more restrained terms.
Villainous Virtues: The Cousins are obsessively loyal to each other and their family in general. A flashback scene shows Hector instilling the lesson that "la familia es todo", forcing one of the boys to fight for his brother's life to punish him for saying "I wish he was dead."
Villain Protagonist: Walt slowly evolves toward this over the course of the first four seasons, but remains an Anti-Villain at worst by always struggling against someone worse. By the fifth season, however, Walter has become a cruel, ruthless man, manipulating and lying to allies and family, and the transformation is complete.
Villain Song:
"Negro y Azul" for "Heisenberg."
"Black" in the closing moments of season 4.
Villain with Good Publicity: Gus, a firm believer in "hiding in plain sight".
Visual Pun: In the first episode, Walt is seen literally laundering money in a clothes dryer.
When Walt teaches Walt Jr. to drive he's having lots of trouble slowing the car down. In other words he's braking bad.
Vocal Evolution: A bit of a minor example, but as the series goes on, Walt and Jesse's voices both change, to coincide with their Character Development. As Walt's actions become more and more reprehensible, the rather quiet tone he has at the beginning of the series is replaced with a deeper, more snarling voice. As Jesse becomes more and more competent, the rather nasal tone and Pretty Fly for a White Guy vernacular that he had in the first season is gradually replaced with a deeper, more mature-sounding voice.
Walt's voice in everyday life also changes considerably, starting out unsure and unconfident. This is especially apparent in scenes when he's talking to Skyler. By season five, everything that he says sounds not only more confident but also far more sinister and manipulative, especially when talking to Skyler.
The Voiceless: The child-murdering rival drug dealers, who never speak a word in all of their appearances. The Salamanca brothers avoid this by the narrowest of margins, speaking in only a few key scenes (and as children in flashbacks).
Volatile Second Tier Position: Walt finds himself saddled with one of these after accepting Gus Fring's job offer - due to a series of mishaps that are mainly Walter's fault. Among other things, the Twins are after him, his relationship with Jesse has tanked, and over time, Fring's patience with Walt's foibles beings to run dangerously thin.
Vomit Discretion Shot
Used in the pilot when Walt throws up after the confrontation in the RV.
Used several times in "Crazy Handful of Nothin", when Walt is throwing up because of the chemotherapy.
Used again in "Salud" when Gus himself purges the poisoned tequila he shared with the Mexican cartel leaders.
Used once more in "Blood Money", after Walt begins his chemotherapy again.
Vomit Indiscretion Shot:
Walter Jr. pukes in the pool, sick on tequila.
Jane dies by choking to death on her own vomit.
Wardrobe Flaw of Characterization: Walter's (otherwise professional-looking) button-up shirts are always two sizes too big, lending him a disheveled appearance and making him appear scrawny and sickly even when he is in relatively good health given his condition. It also fits his characterization as a very intelligent and competent man who has a bad habit of missing small but crucial details.
Watering Down: Jesse initially spiked his meth with chili powder before Walt put a stop to that.
In early season 5, a plan to rob methylamine uses this technique — replace the methylamine in a tanker car with water during an emergency stop.
Webcomic Time: The show started on Walt's 50th birthday. He turns 51 in the season 5 episode "Fifty-One", broadcast more than four and a half years after the pilot.
Well, This Is Not That Trope: When Mike is about to part ways with Heisenberg and Jesse:
Mike: You know how they say "it's been a pleasure"? [beat] It hasn't.
Wham Episode: Has its own page.
Wham Line:
In season 1's "Cancer Man", after Jesse is kicked out of the house after a joint is found in his room, his brother Jake goes up to him and says this:
Jake: Thanks for not telling on me.
In season 1's "Crazy Handful Of Nothin'", Walt cooks what looks like meth but is actually a highly reactive explosive that he uses to threaten Tuco.
Walt: This... is not meth.
In the Season 2 finale "ABQ", while Walt is under anesthesia:
Skyler: Walt, did you bring your cell phone?
Walt: Which one?
Another line later in the same episode which kickstarts the climactic plane crash:
Don: Juliet-Mike-21... ...climb and maintain 17,000. Clear direct to Albuquerque via the— Aircraft calling, please stand by. Jane-Mike-21, turn, heading— Disregard.
In the season 3 premiere:
Skyler: You're a drug dealer.
Forms the name of the episode "I.F.T.":
Skyler: I fucked Ted.
The last line of the Season 4 episode "Cornered". Hank finds evidence that links Gale to Los Pollos Hermanos and, by extension, to Gustavo Fring.
Hank: Since when do vegans eat fried chicken?
From "Crawl Space":
Gus: If you interfere, the problem becomes much simpler. I will kill your wife. I will kill your son. I will kill your infant This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.daughter.
From "Face Off". Walt's plan to kill Gus goes off without a hitch and he tells Skyler exactly that.
Walt: I won.
From "Fifty-One":
Skyler: [I'm waiting] for the cancer to come back.
A flashback version that Hank recalls in "Gliding Over All":
Hank: "To W.W. My star, my perfect silence." W.W. I mean, who do you figure that is, y'know? Woodrow Wilson? Willy Wonka?... Walter White?
Walt: You got me.
From "Blood Money". Walter threatens his own brother-in-law.
Walt: If you don't know who I am, then maybe your best course would be to tread lightly.
From "Confessions", After Marie finds out about Walt's meth empire.
Marie: Why don't you just kill yourself, Walt?
Technically he would go on to do that.
Another one from the same episode:
Walt: If you're watching this tape, I'm probably dead, murdered by my brother-in-law, Hank Schrader. Hank has been building a meth empire for over a year now and using me as his chemist.
From "Rabid Dog". Skyler shows how comfortable she has become with the idea of letting people die to save her and Walt's own skin.
Skyler: We've come this far. For us. What's one more?
From the same episode. Walt intends to contact Todd's uncle and his gang, who are hitmen, to kill Jesse because he's become a liability.
Walt: I think I might have another job for your uncle.
From "Ozymandias". Hank refuses to beg for his life despite Walt's plea, realizing that he's going to be killed anyway.
Hank: You're the smartest guy I ever met and you're too stupid to see he made up his mind ten minutes ago.
Also from "Ozymandias. After Skyler attacks Walt with a knife, and Flynn throws him off.
Walt: WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU?! WE'RE A FAMILY!!!
From the same episode. Walter realizes how far he has fallen after kidnapping his own daughter.
Holly: Mama, Mama, Mama.
Also from "Ozymandias". Walt finally confesses to one of his many crimes.
Walt: I watched Jane die. I was there. And I watched her die. I watched her overdose and choke to death. I could have saved her. But I didn't.
From "Felina". Walt's excuse for everything he's done in the series is rebutted by himself.
Walter: I did it for me. I liked it. I was good at it. And, I was really... I was alive.
Wham Shot:
The final shot in "Face Off", showing the Lily of the Valley in Walter's garden that was used to poison Brock.
The final shot of "Gliding Over All", where we see Gale wrote a dedication to Walter in the Walt Whitman book he gave him, and Hank is reading it, finally connecting the dots.
"Confessions": That look on Jesse's face when he figures out who lifted the ricin-packed cigarette. And pretty much every minute after that as Jesse goes on a rampage.
"Ozymandias": The shot of Skyler reaching for the kitchen knife over the phone after discovering Hank is dead.
What Happened to the Mouse?:
Jane's father Donald is said to have attempted suicide after causing a plane crash. He is never mentioned again.
Huell was last seen left in a safe house by Hank and Steve and is never mentioned again. It's been joked by the crew that he's still in that room. (Though This example contains a TRIVIA entry. It should be moved to the TRIVIA tab.Word of God states that Huell eventually got out thanks to other DEA agents.)
We never find out what became of the barrels of Walt's cash that Uncle Jack stole.
Ted Beneke's ultimate fate is never brought up as well. The last that is said about him is that he may never walk again, so that's obviously an ambiguous situation which isn't cleared up when he disappears from the narrative.
Brock isn't seen or referred to again after Andrea's murder.
What the Hell, Hero?:
Several people deliver these to Walt over the course of the show. Not that he ever really pays any attention.
As they're about to be given new identities by Ed, Saul calls Walt out for running away and leaving Skyler and their children to be punished for his crimes, especially as he's dying anyway.
What You Are in the Dark: A major theme in the show. Walt begins manufacturing meth and tries to keep this fact a secret from the people he cares about. Eventually, it turns out that in the dark, Walt is a very bad person.
Played straight when Walter decide to intervene and save Jesse from being killed by Gus's drug dealers, even tho he earlier refused to help Jesse with devising a discreet way to poison them and save Tomas. Walter had to simply do nothing and leave Jesse to die, and he would have been fine. Instead, the ensuing war between Walter and Gus, as Mike will quite accurately point out during his last confrontation with Walter, will be the first step that will eventually cause the entire empire of Heisenberg to utterly crash down on him.
Who Names Their Kid "Dude"?: "Not Mad Dog, Not Diesel, you were held up... by a guy named Spooge?"
Who Watches the Watchmen?:
Skyler: Someone has to protect this family from the man who protects this family.
Women's Mysteries: When Skyler is detained by a jeweler on suspicion of shoplifting, she fakes going into labor to scare them into letting her go. Or possibly just to get her to stop Lamazing at them.
Won the War, Lost the Peace: A constant theme.
Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds: Walter himself could be interpreted as this. The "Destroyer of Worlds" part came from him using his skill in chemistry to manufacture crystal meth and sell it to support his family, right after he found out that his death will leave his family in extreme poverty. It goes downhill from there when his actions becomes less justified and he continues to make bigger schemes, and he eventually becomes a murderous person himself.
Would Hurt a Child:
The street gangsters who killed Tomas.
Gus threatens to kill Walt's son and daughter if he continues interfering with his plans.
It turns out that Walt was responsible for non-fatally poisoning Brock.
Todd shoots a child witness in cold blood.
Wouldn't Hit a Girl: Mike avoids killing Lydia, but later regrets his "sexism" and admits that he wouldn't have shown mercy if she were a man.
X Called; They Want Their Y Back: After one of Jesse's (many) beatings, Saul takes a picture of his face and says "Hey, Adrian! Rocky called, he wants his face back!"
Xanatos Gambit: Gus pits the Salamanca assassins after Walt's head against the DEA agent investigating him... and then gives Hank prior warning of the hit. As Walt works out, he didn't care who died. He just wanted a big, dramatic shootout to get the American authorities to crack down on the Cartel, while also distracting both sides away from "Heisenberg". Whatever happens, Gus increases his chokehold on the market.
Xanatos Speed Chess: The latter portion of Season 3 and all of Season 4 is one giant game of Cat and Mouse between Walt and Gus as they plot each other's murder. They both exploit each other's Fatal Flaw, Walt's pride and Gus' desire for revenge. Ultimately, Walt wins out.
Yank the Dog's Chain:
Oh, Hank, why did you have to go and call Marie to tell her you'd caught Walt? The next thing you know, you're diving for cover from a hail of bullets.
Each and everytime Jessie finds stability and happiness, don't expect it to last long.
Yoko Oh No: Saul accuses Skyler of this when she decides to become more involved with Walt's meth dealing business and, specifically, suggest he invests in the car wash he used to work for as a way to launder money rather than invest in Saul's laser tag venue.
You Have Outlived Your Usefulness:
Lydia suggests this to Mike, who angrily rejects the idea of killing eleven people who he personally vetted and trusts to be loyal. She tries to go through with the plan anyway.
Lydia almost suffered this at Walt's hands, only squeezing out by talking him into using her to ship his product overseas.
You Keep Telling Yourself That: Both Jesse and Skyler have called Walter out whenever he's tried to rationalize the safety of his family or others, and also the reasoning for his actions. Subverted in the last episode; he honestly tells Skyler he did everything for himself.
You Kill It, You Bought It: Defied by Mike, when Walt is disappointed with the profits they make when they start distributing for themselves after the death of Gus, who'd built his empire up over decades.
Mike: Just because you killed Jesse James...don't make you Jesse James.
You Monster!: Hank says this to Walt when he confronts him for being Heisenberg.
Your Days Are Numbered: This kicks the whole plot of the series into gear, when Walt finds out he has terminal lung cancer. In "Blood Money", Walt cites this as a reason why it would be pointless for Hank to go after him (he'll be dead before he sees a jail cell). When he finds out in season two that his days might not be quite so numbered (his cancer goes into remission) Walt punches a paper towel dispenser in rage.
Your Head Asplode:
For Gus, this happens only halfway.
The Tortuga Bomb. Tortuga's head is mounted on a tortoise packed with explosives.
Your Mom: In "Better Call Saul":
Saul: I sense you're discussing my client. Anything you care to share with me?
Hank: Sure, your commercials? They suck ass. I've seen better acting in an epileptic whorehouse.
Saul: Is that like the one your mom works at? Is she still offering the two for one discount?

Fridge / Breaking Bad
Fridge Brilliance
Heisenberg actually ends up being something of an accidental hero: his actions end up with the collapse of not 1, not 2, but 4 major crime syndicates: The Cartel, Pollos Hermanos, the Arizona Neo-Nazis, and the Blue Sky cook. He arguably did more for the War on Drugs than the DEA, in universe. Not only that, but also more impact on gangs in general than the FBI by taking out an entire state’s worth of non-imprisoned Nazis.
After Krazy-8 walks off from Jesse's house, Jesse takes the bike lock off his mo-ped to keep Krazy-8 from escaping again. In Season 2, after he's been evicted by his parents, his mo-ped gets stolen outside of a gas station.
Swing and a miss. The scene also includes Jesse spiking said lock in rage because they removed it.
In the intervention scene in "Gray Matter," Hank tries to give Walt a pep talk using poker as an analogy. Where does Skyler later claim their sudden influx of cash has come from? Walt's gambling addiction. The moment could even serve as a retrospective, in-universe explanation for what 'inspired' Walt in the first place (ignoring the fact of where the money really comes from).
The tag of the final season is Remember My Name. In the penultimate episode, Walt is about to surrender when he sees on TV Elliot and Gretchen dismissing Walt's contribution to Gray Matter and Heisenberg's reputation as a drug kingpin. Their insult to Walt's name kicks off the series finale.
It also generally applies since the final season sees the destruction of Heisenberg and his empire. With nothing to show for it, all that's left would be the legend and his name. The tag is talking directly to us, the viewers.
It also again invokes the poem Ozymandias, where a guy's legacy crumbles and the only thing that's left of him is the name.
When Mike tells Walt that paying off the guys in prison is "what you do", Walt dismisses it as Mike wasting money on an unnecessary personal code, and opts to have them all killed instead. Except, in a later episode, Hank is pretty easily able to flip Huell by convincing him that Walt wants him dead as a "loose end". This actually echoes several real life cases where crime bosses killed too easily and their remaining subordinates sought police protection out of fear that they'd be next. In other words, Mike's code is the intelligent, reasonable way of dealing with the world of drug-dealing. Mike knew what he was doing, and Walt just didn't have a clue. It's a subtle but key example of how Walt brought about his own downfall by trusting his own judgement above everyone else's, even though he really doesn't get how the criminal world works.
This also applies to the series finale: Why, despite everything, is Walt able to get Badger and Skinny Pete to help him bluff the Schwartzes? Because in season 2, when Badger got stung by the cops, Walt made a point of getting Badger released from jail rather than have him killed. Badger is grateful enough to Walt to continue to trust him, and naturally enough, Skinny Pete, as a friend of Badger's, trusts Walt as well.
Teddy bear with a face that is half burnt off after an explosion? Gus Fring, anyone?
It was missing an eye... Walt carries around said eye... Gus was missing an eye... Gus's actions continue to affect Walt posthumously... Holy crap!
In the episode "Blood Money", Badger's monologue about his Star Trek fan fiction may seem to be a Big-Lipped Alligator Moment, except for the fact his story hinges on the Enterprise's transporter system. In the Star Trek universe, a key component of the transporter is the "Heisenberg compensator", the function of which is to compensate for Werner Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. The uncertainty principle is, symbolically, a defining feature of Walter White.
Why is Walt annoyed by the cash register sound effect used by Walter Jr.'s donation website? Maybe it's not because the sound is disturbing Holly, but because it's the exact same sound effect used for Hector Salamanca's bell, and Walt sees it as a painful reminder of his and Jesse's time in Tuco's captivity.
In "Half Measures", Mike tells Walt that back when he was a cop, he took a serial wife-beater out to the country to scare him straight by threatening to kill him. The man later killed his wife, leading Mike to promise himself he would never use a 'half measure' (scaring him) rather than a 'full measure' (killing him) again. Except, he and other characters later on end up losing everything because they take a half-measure, Mike included:
Come Season 5, Mike decides against killing Walt because Jesse begs him not to. This ultimately plants the seeds that cause Mike's death.
In "Crawl Space," Gus takes Walt out to the desert and threatens him instead of killing him due to Jesse's intervention. This plants the seeds for Gus's death.
This motif debatably carries over to Walter in the second half of season 5 twice:
Saul presents the option for Walter to kill Hank, but Walter scoffs at this because he can't bring himself to kill a family member, instead electing to make the tape, which stalls Hank temporarily, but doesn't solve his problem.
Multiple characters urge Walter to kill Jesse, but instead, he elects to simply try and talk to him. Dragging his feet on killing Jesse arguably starts Walter's demise more than anything else. Ironically, it's the few times late in the series where Walter actually tries to be a decent person again that lead to his destruction.
In a way, one could say that just as the 'Heisenberg' persona was the downfall of Walter White (separating him from his life/loved ones), it's the kinder 'Walter White' persona which is the downfall of Heisenberg (not taking action against Hank and Jesse).
There is also a very clear inconsistency in this theme, however. Mike takes an obvious 'half-measure', if not two, with regard to Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, but Lydia's continued presence has no real negative consequences for Mike or anyone else. The only possible exception is saying that the Mike's men in prison would've been better off but, had the prison hit not happened, things would've just ended badly for Jesse, Walter, and possibly even Mike anyway. So it's kinda six-in-one and half-a-dozen in the other.
Hank's half-measure is that instead of taking his suspicions/evidence directly to SAC Ramey, he waits until he knows he can personally fully pin Walter. The second he does, he ends up getting killed by the Aryan Brotherhood.
The season two finale has a massive Genius Bonus: the midair collision is similar to a real-life incident in 1986, when an Aeromexico jet and a private plane flew into each other over Los Angeles. The air traffic controller in the incident: his name was Walter White!.
In "Rabid Dog," Jesse momentarily examines a book called Dutch on a bookshelf in Hank's house. In gambling, a "Dutch book" is a term for a wager that's guaranteed to yield a profit no matter what the outcome is — in other words, it describes Hank's intended gambit with Jesse. As long as Jesse approaches Walt, it doesn't matter what happens. Either way, Hank will get new evidence against Walt.
The presence of the book itself is also a bit of a Genius Bonus: Dutch is a biography of Ronald Reagan, the president who started the war on drugs and massively expanded the DEA. Hank may very well owe his career to him.
What does Walt build to use against the Neo-Nazis in the finale? A robot, which is a reference to a previous line in "4 Days Out".
In the very first scene of the pilot, Walt's video message to his family includes the line "I only had you in my heart". Both meanings of that phrase: that Walt cooks meth to provide for his family, and Walt's Lack of Empathy to people outside his family are significant parts of Walt's character.
Walt takes his alias, "Heisenberg", from the famed German physicist Werner Heisenberg, who became infamous late in his career for working to help the Nazis develop nuclear weapons during World War II. In season 5B, Walt ends up working with a gang of neo-Nazis.
Perhaps borders on Fridge Horror, but the show was essentially about turning Mr. Chips into Scarface. As Walt's actions gradually get worse and worse, he keeps giving rationales for said actions. Since Walt started as an Escapist Character, the audience probably is too. However, at one point in the series, Walt probably will cross a line that you would be unwilling to cross. Since the viewer is (presumably) as normal as Walt would be in the beginning, we get to see how far we'd be willing to go to break bad, when we finally see him do an action we would be unwilling to do.
In "Cancer Man", Walt tells the story of how he met Skyler. She was a hostess at a restaurant he frequented, and he noticed her filling out crossword puzzles in her downtime. Seeing an opportunity to set up a Meet Cute for the two of them, he started doing the puzzles himself and asking her for help. On the surface, this seems sweet, and the result of a shy man dragging his feet on talking to his crush, but look more closely. He used his intelligence and power of observation to identify something about her, then he used that information to attract her with manipulation and lies. Harmless lies about needing help on a crossword, admittedly, but it's still a very calculated and somewhat underhanded way to get her attention that demonstrates early on how he conducts himself when he wants something.
The bullet that kills Walt hits him in his right lung. Walt was living with terminal lung cancer, and that means that in a way, the organ that he was told would kill him in due time ultimately did kill him.
When Gus threatens Walt in "Crawl Space", why does he not threaten to kill Walt, but rather, threatens his family? It's simple, because he knows Walt's cancer is coming back. How do we know this? Not only is it the fact that Walt's "cancer cough" has returned, but because Gus has the super-detailed medical information of his most important employees (seeing how the impromptu medical clinic earlier in the same episode had the correct blood types on hand for everyone who got wounded during the escape from the cartels' compound). Gus knows Walter is a dead man and threatening to kill him would accomplish nothing, so threatening his family, in Gus's mind, is the only way to go.
Gus threatens loved ones of targets because he himself suffered at the loss of his "loved one" in Max's traumatizing death.
Why did Victor try to cook meth by himself, only to get killed by Gus? Because Victor knows he's partially responsible for letting Gale get killed. He and Mike had unknowingly allowed Walt to find out where Gale lived, while Walt hid Jesse under their noses and carried out another act against Gus. Victor had to have known that Gus was probably going to kill him as a penalty for failing to protect Gale and for being seen by witnesses. Also, Victor probably knew that someone in his position is pretty easily replaceable. That would at least explain why Victor decided to cook that batch of meth: he's making a desperate effort to prove to Gus that he was more valuable than Walt, and that he could take Walt's place and Gus would instead change his mind and kill Walt. Sadly, it just didn't work.
When Gus is questioned in "Hermanos," it's clear that he anticipated his prints being in Gale's house. But you wonder, where did Hank get the comparison prints from? But then you realize, Gus was a Chilean immigrant. Even though Hank does admit that immigrant background checks weren't as thorough prior to 9/11, even in the 1980s when Gus did enter the United States, all green card and naturalization applicants were fingerprinted when going through an FBI background check and these prints remain on file permanently. So Gus clearly knew his fingerprints were already on file. Meaning that Hank's whole cup ruse was practically unnecessary. Maybe Hank just didn't think of that or he did it (and it happened offscreen), since he was basically conducting his own investigation and didn't want to send in an official request for the prints.
Walt's windshield: notice in "Caballo Sin Nombre" that in every shot before the cop pulls Walt over, the windshield appears to be perfectly intact with no Wayfarer 515 damage. It's not until the police officer points out the damage to Walt that the damage actually appears. Seems like a continuity error, or, alternately: the damage was always there, but Walt was so off in his own little world that he didn't notice it until the cop pointed it out to him. The windshield looking intact was showing it as Walt would've imagined it.
The camera was probably mounted on the dashboard and not the hood, that's why we can't see damage; because we can't see the windshield in the first place.
Hank realizing Walt is Heisenberg is an interesting one: While it definitely seems like an oversight for Walt to leave incriminating evidence like a copy of Leaves of Grass from Gale Boetticher lying in plain sight where anyone could pick it up, and that's all it takes for Hank to put two and two together, that actually happens more often than not. In investigations of this nature, it often only takes just a tiny clue or slip-up to send the police in the right direction and ultimately crack the case open. It was just the tiniest of mistakes by Walt. By itself, it wasn't really anything and Walt might have been able to explain it away, but it wouldn't matter because the damage was already done. Up to that point, for Hank, the idea of Walt being Heisenberg was about as foreign as Marie being Heisenberg. It was just utterly absent from Hank's mind even though there were plenty of other clues right in front of his face. That slip-up with the copy of Leaves of Grass implanted the idea in Hank's mind that maybe it was Walt all along, and all Hank had to do was think about it: "Hmm, Walt is a brilliant chemist. Yet no one can find him whenever other important things are going on [like Tuco's death or Gus's death]. And he insisted on staying at his home in the wake of Fring's threat on my life rather than come with the rest of his family to my home for protection, meaning for a couple days he was completely by himself, during which Fring was killed. And oh my god, that lame-ass story of his and Skyler's about counting cards for how he suddenly was able to afford to purchase the car wash he used to work at, a story that in my opinion seems to be a bit too good to be true? And his connections to Jesse Pinkman, a man who I've personally investigated on several occasions for meth manufacturing/distribution? FUCK!"
When Gus, annoyed with the Cousins' intimidation tactics, tells them to meet him at sunset in the desert, notice that even though they act together and kill together, the two Cousins seem to have subtly different personalities. Marco looks calm and collected, while Leonel looks aggressive and paranoid. Once you see the flashback of Hector nearly drowning Marco, you can understand why Leonel (as the one who had to hit Hector repeatedly to get him to let Marco go) is acting like that.
Saul's freakout in "Full Measures" when Mike threatens to break his legs to get information on Jesse's wherabouts seems kinda out-of-character. But after viewing the scene in Better Call Saul where Jimmy/Saul has to watch as Tuco breaks two skateboarders' legs because they insulted his grandmother, it makes sense that Jimmy may still have traumatic memories of what happened.
It's also the fact that Mike is threatening him. While the two probably wouldn't call each other friends, they've worked together on-and-off since 2002 and are genuinely willing to stick their neck out for each other; see also Mike saving Jimmy's life in the desert with his sniper rifle, then trying to comfort him when he's traumatized (insofar as Mike is capable of comforting someone). The fact that Mike is threatening to hurt him just to get to Walt is when Saul realized that Walt fucked up beyond repair and the only options were to go along with Walt's plan to get Mike away or sell out a client, which he will never do no matter what.
For Walt's 51st birthday, Jesse gets him a Tag Heuer Monaco watch. The watch is forever linked to and made famous by Steve McQueen in the movie Le Mans. Steve McQueen died in 1980 of a rare, inoperable lung cancer.
It's not visible on the surface, but when you think about Hank's home-brewery, you realize that he and Walt have subtle similarities. Walt felt like a failure in his life and career, and made meth to make up for it and compensate. Hank also felt like somewhat of an underachiever at the DEA, as he wanted to become an ASAC (before deciding that field work was his talent), and brewed beer.
Both cooking meth and brewing beer are complex chemical processes that can be done (with wildly varying levels of quality) by individuals with the right equipment. Both result in mind-altering substances. But Hank's concoction is legal, and he only produces it in small quantities for friends; Walt's is illegal and he's always insisting on producing more.
Skyler slept with Ted, then helped him cook his books. If you think about it, Skyler helping Ted with illegal activity may have gone some way to helping her understand what Walt did and why, and factored into her aiding Walt's operation with the purchase of the car wash. That said, Ted cooked his books and Walt cooked his meth — there's a big difference (even though both are crimes).
Knowing the events of Better Call Saul makes clear that even though Jimmy has become Saul thoroughly, parts of Jimmy's human side still shine, like:
Scenes where Saul is appalled by Walt's poisoning of Brock.
The scene where he screams to Jesse: "I never would have agreed to it if I knew Walt was going to poison him! You've gotta believe me, Jesse! I didn't want any of THIS!"
His scene in "Granite State" and the way he tries to give Walt proper legal advice for a change.
The scene where he's racking his head before Ted arrives in his office, saying: "This is a bad idea...this is a bad idea...this is a bad idea..." as if he knows Ted is probably on the same league of idiocracy as the Kettlemans or Daniel Warmold.
The scene where he went out of his way to tell Jesse that he should go see Andrea and Brock in Season 4.
The scene where Walt tells Saul: "I can't be the bad guy anymore" in Season 3 and Saul sits in his car afterword, looking bothered.
During the attempted truck hijack in "Bullet Points", Mike's actions while crouched in the back of the truck — or the way he draws his pistol the moment the truck stops completely — make it clear he seems to know the hijackers' M.O. Seems to make more sense after the Better Call Saul episode "Nailed" reveals that Mike knew their methods... because he himself once hijacked an ice cream truck smuggling Hector Salamanca's drug money.
Before the "Dead Freight" heist, Mike remarks that there are two types of heists: perfect ones, and ones that leave a witness behind. Now, this has meaning in Breaking Bad because Todd kills Drew Sharp for stumbling upon the train heist. But maybe Mike is drawing from experience because in Better Call Saul, he hijacked one of Hector Salamanca's trucks and stole drug money from it, but he didn't kill the driver. Subsequently, when a Good Samaritan came along afterwards, he cut the driver loose and the driver called Hector in. Hector then took the Samaritan out into the desert and shot him point-blank in the head.
The attacks on Gus's refrigerator trucks early season 4; considering that both incidents ended in a shot up refrigerator truck on the roadside with a dead driver (and two dead guards armed with assault rifles in the second robbery), and the bodies and truck were just left there, not disposed of, how come there was no police investigation into either attack? But look in the episode of Better Call Saul where Mike attacked one of Hector's trucks, ostensibly trying to put the cops on Hector. When Mike is confronted by Nacho after the fact, Mike asks why the robbery wasn't in the papers, and Nacho mentions that Hector's crew cleaned up the scene and removed the truck, making it look like nothing happened. Hector's operation may be small fry compared to Gus's operation, Gus might have a similar service on hand to make sure they don't end up with newspaper articles headlined "Los Pollos Hermanos Refrigerator Truck Attacked", "Police Seek Suspects in Los Pollos Hermanos Truck Ambush", "Three Killed in Los Pollos Hermanos Truck Robbery", and so on.
Walt's memetic "I AM the one who knocks!" line seems kinda Narmy. It seems up there with Tony Montana's "Say hello to my little friend!" in Scarface (1983). Walt idolizes Scarface, and even watches it with Walt Jr. in a season 5A episode, saying "Look how cool this is!" Walt intentionally imitated the bravado from a movie, regardless of its real world appearance. It's symptomatic of a much larger truth: Walt sees his life like a movie, he sees himself like the big boss, despite the realities crashing in around him.
For a hardened drug kingpin who kills a lot of people, Walt begs for his life and pleads a lot. Nearly pissing his pants many times, he's as scared or worse than someone like Jesse half the time. But that element of Walt makes more sense when you consider he's not a hardened drug kingpin. As mentioned with the Scarface example above, Walt constantly acts like someone who got his ideals from TV shows and movies. The fact that he acts this way when trapped in a corner may have been intentional to drive home a simple point Krazy 8 mentioned: Walt was never really meant to be a drug dealer, much less a kingpin. He just never "got it" and that's why everything was constantly falling apart for him. In fact, for all his faults in the emotional department, Jesse actually understood what their role was in the underworld. It was Jesse who warned against doing business with Tuco, Jesse who was against expanding into new territory (which got Combo killed), Jesse who was against meeting in the middle of nowhere, Jesse who was against continuing the operation after being offered a buyout, etc.
In fact, it's hard to be a successful, hardened "bad guy" when you're a family man on the side. Too much collateral, as Tuco put it. Just compare Walt to the other "successful" bad guys in both this show and Better Call Saul. The closest thing any of them has to a family would be Mike with his daughter-in-law and granddaughter. Better Call Saul also showed how having family complicates things, both with Mike's family and with Nacho's father. Walt only survived as long as he did through sheer luck and by outsmarting people on the technical/mechanical side of things, not because he actually understood the drug game. This lack of understanding of the drug game also means that even at his peak, Walt would never be able to create a meth empire akin to Gus', as that takes a lifetime of patience, creating connections, and establishing a chain of command.
It also ties in with the theme of the whole show: Walt is a genius but an amateur. One day he is making brilliant moves, the next he looks like a complete idiot (expanding his territory in Season 2 in a way that got Combo killed, etc). In fact, it explains his and Mike's conflicts. Walt is much smarter, but Mike is savvier. Mike catches Walt going to Gus's house, trying to sneak into the warehouse, etc. All amateur moves. But Walt outthinks them with tactics like his orchestration of Gale's murder, or having Hector be a fake snitch (which was helped by Mike being out of commission).
In "Bullet Points", Hank, still thinking Gale was Heisenberg, tells Walt that he really wanted to catch the guy, overtly styling himself as a modern-day Popeye Doyle. Walt points out that Popeye never actually caught his suspect. In hindsight, Hank never did either, as he was killed just as he was about to bring Walt down for good.
Gus is a man who would keep his friend close and his enemies closer. That is why he's friends with the DEA: because he's the last person the DEA would suspect to be running drugs.﻿
Gus doesn't look concerned when he learns that Hank is installing a tracker on his car and tells Walt to "Do it". He's not concerned because, as seasons 3 and 4 of Better Call Saul shows, he used trackers to monitor Mike before recruiting him into his business. Gus knows, therefore, the tricks you can use to throw off a tracker when you need to do shady business.
Gus Fring is a major organized crime guy and he is very much The Chicken Man. He gets blown up with a bomb. Almost like a shoutout to an infamous mobster from Philadelphia named Salvatore "Chicken Man" Testa, who was blown up with a bomb in the 1980s.
In Season 3 Saul strongly pushed laser tag—that is, a game in which lasers serve as fake guns—as the best way for the Whites to launder their drug money. How does Walter finally manage to launder his remaining money to his family? By having Badger and Skinny Pete point lasers at the Schwartzes under the pretense that they are fictional snipers.
Skyler is very similar to Walt regarding biting more than she can chew. When she decides to carry the task of laundering Walt's money by using the car wash instead of the Laser Tag business Saul offered. While it's less suspicious to go with the car wash and her managing the business, it is much more less effective in actually covering Walt since is easier to relate the wash to him rather than have someone else appointed to manage the laser tag and having to do actual police tier digging to realize Walt owns it, not to mention that a Laser Tag business is much cheaper to kick start than buying an already existing Car Wash so is easier to explain, and if something goes bad Skyler is tying herself and the rest of the family with the money laundering operation. Skyler is just as an amateur compared to the pros as Walt is.
In fact, if the theories about the high executives of Madrigal knowing about Gus' operation and Peter Schuler taking the blame are to be believed then Saul was probably aiming for something similar. While it would have been hard to explain to the family it would provide Walt with a fall guy as unrelated to him as possible.
In "Over", Jesse admits to Jane that he once created several hilariously lame superheroes when he was a teenager, including "Kanga-Man" (a human-kangaroo hybrid who carries a Kid Sidekick in his pouch), "Rewindo" (who has the power to move backwards really fast), and "Hover Man" (who can glide and surf with air cushions under his feet). It's funny at first—but as we really get to know Jesse over the course of the show, those lame superheroes can really seem like serious Wish Fulfillment figures in hindsight. "Kanga-Man" represents his desire to find a nurturing father figure, "Rewindo" represents his desire to walk away from the negative influences in his life, and "Hover Man" represents his desire to rise above his background and make his own choices.
A key part of Walt's characterization is that he sees cooking meth as a creative outlet just as much as a business, and he takes immense pride in the unrivaled quality of his meth—just like you'd expect of any other creative person, like a painter or a musician. Jesse even calls him an "artist" in the very first episode. With this in mind, his relationships with Saul Goodman and Gus Fring can come across very differently. Saul is a networker who helps Walt make connections with people who can actually sell his product, while Gus is a wealthy businessman who sells and distributes his product—which is where the real money is. So not only does Walt frequently behave like an artist, Saul essentially serves as his agent, and Gus essentially serves as an executive.
Watch the scene where Saul meets with Jesse's parents and their lawyer to negotiate repurchasing Jesse's house on behalf of his client. Now rewatch this scene after watching Better Call Saul, and suddenly Saul's disdain for the Pinkmans' lawyer seems more like it's due to the lawyer embodying everything Saul / Jimmy hated about Chuck. Hell, Mr. Gardner's reaction of "What is this, a joke?" you see a look on Saul's face that almost makes it seem like he's recalling Chuck's breakdown in "Chicanery" ("And he gets to be a lawyer? What a sick joke!").
You can even tell he was triggered a bit after that. They way he drops his head for a bit, and lowers his voice as he goes in for the kill. He can probably still remember that day clearly.
How is Saul able to accurately predict Walt that he'll end up managing a Cinnabon in Omaha? For starters, the owner of that particular Cinnabon is in the game. The real Gene Takavic was a guy so far in over his head in gambling debts he could never pay off, and was killed for it. But: Takavic had no one, no friends, no family, no one to find it unusual that he's been missing for so long. He made his money remotely, or maybe living off some kind of windfall - the point is, the authorities have no reason to believe he is dead. So when the real Gene is killed, the identity is kept alive in the record books to sell to people like the vacuum guy. And when vacuum guy needs to set up a new life for a client, people like the owner of the Cinnabon can, for a price, provide the client a landing spot. Saul must have paid extra to make sure that he'd end up in a solid landing place, not a free-but-uncertain future like Jesse Pinkman's. And when Saul opts to disappear, he watches a few Cinnabon training videos, the owner fires or reassigns the current manager, then brings in Saul, introducing him to the rest of the crew. Nothing suspicious.
Fridge Brilliance - Metastasis
Walter Blanco is compared to William Blake instead of Walt Whitman. Considering the violence in Blake's works, it is very appropriate.
Fridge Horror
Remember how Wendy was around Once a Season? The last episode she was in was when she was part of Jesse's attempt to kill the two drug dealers who'd corrupted Andrea's brother. At the end of the episode, they've killed said little brother, and Wendy's not been seen since, either. She's probably been killed, or overdosed.
Can you imagine how much it must've destroyed Walt seeing the aftermath of the airplane crash and realizing through the TV coverage that he had inadvertently caused 150+ deaths by letting Jane die? Even worse, when he eventually pieces together that he met Donald Margolis at a bar right before he went and basically killed his daughter.
Walt’s speech in the school gym might reflect this. We never get an answer for why Walt gives an impromptu speech he memorized a mountain of air crash statistics for. However, notice how desperate he is to downplay the death toll and how much he’s stumbling over his words during it. While Walt can turn on the empathy trigger statements regarding it if need be and is shellshocked by the actual carnage itself, nothing about him ever remotely implies he would care nearly as much about it as he does, certainly not to the point of researching its ranks in the list of air disasters. The most logical explanation is that he looked it up trying to reassure himself that he didn’t do something too horrible, hence his repeated insistence in the speech about how it could have been worse and there are so many worse ones. He’s just trying to ease his guilt over the massacre.
Early on in Season 5, Lydia says that she can't die because she has a little girl to take care of, and if she does die or goes missing, her daughter will end up in foster care, which she knows will be horrible for her. In the series finale, Walt poisons Lydia with the ricin he hid in the cigarette, meaning she only has a few more days to live, dooming Lydia's daughter to the fate she described.
Though Lydia does at least get her wish in that she won't disappear, and her daughter won't think she abandoned her. The nature of the poison at least gives her time to arrange things.
Jesse does not seem to be in the best mental state, to put it mildly, when he escapes in the finale. Will he be able to recover? If so, how will he support himself? Has he gone too far into the drug world and thus had his reputation and chances for another life utterly destroyed?
This plot thread and all of the following speculation is addressed in its entirety in El Camino.
Additionally, isn't he in trouble with the DEA now? Any deal he might have had presumably died with Hank, and he's unlikely to be able to make a new one with Heisenberg dead and his empire in shambles; Jesse simply doesn't have anything of value to offer. Not to mention the fact that he's totally broke, and his lawyer just fell off the face of the earth.
There's a theory on Headscratchers that it would actually look embarrassing for the cops to prosecute Jesse after he spent the better portion of a year in a Neo-Nazi dungeon, especially if he said he got coerced into working with Hank and Gomez. He might be able to get a settlement and possibly even therapy, considering that if word gets out that Jesse was basically enslaved by Jack Welker and his gang and then escaped after killing one of his captors, the media would almost certainly portray him as a victim. Also, Badger and Skinny Pete are still alive and they'd probably be willing to help Jesse.
Jesse most likely would go to Alaska where he originally begged Saul to "disappear" him — mirroring Walt's exile to New Hampshire. Jesse liked to watch "Ice Truckers", which mirrors Jesse's function to "move 'ice'" in the meth biz with Walt — maybe a new occupation for him. Alaska is home to many fugitives and is America's "final frontier." Not Badger's Star Trek transporter. Jesse's ragged and rugged appearance hints this in the finale and will let him blend in and "hide in plain sight."
In ”Full Measures”, Gus is offended when Walt questions if he could have order the hit on Tomás, leaving it rather ambiguous if Gus had anything to do with Tomás’ death. One season later in ”Crawl Space”, Gus threatens to kill Walt’s entire family including his infant daughter, meaning that he doesn’t seem to have a problem with killing children. Could that answer the Thomás question?
What happened to Brock? Is he living with another family relative we don't know about after Andrea was killed? Is he in foster care? Did Jesse pick him up and adopt him after he escaped from Jack and his goons? Or did Jack's neo-nazis kill him anyway and not inform Jesse about it so he could still cook for them under the assumption that Brock was still alive?
Not to mention how could he have been killed in that case, considering he's a hispanic boy sorrounded by Neo-Nazis and the problems that his death would imply an acid bath isn't far from possible, neither throwing him in while still alive.
In real life, the Aryan Brotherhood are allied with the Mexican Mafia. It's likely him being Hispanic is not a priority for them.
There is his grandmother who he and Andrea are living with when they are introduced.
And in the last episode, Gretchen makes a seemingly throwaway remark about her maid, Juana, being upset on account of her daughter. Juana could possibly be the mother of Andrea.
They probably didn't kill Brock. They've already killed Andrea. Since Jesse is already cooking under the assumption that Brock is alive, what advantage would the Neo-Nazis gain by killing Brock at a later date? And if Brock had something to tell the police, he would have likely already told them before the "later date" arrived (he may be young, but he'll remember Todd's face very clearly from when he visited to shoot Andrea). He would also be harder to get at by that point. Potentially, they would have had to kill other people to get at Brock. Not to mention that killing Brock would introduce a chance that Jesse finds out about it somehow. What if a newspaper page could blew into his cage or perhaps a radio playing within earshot of Jesse's cage broadcasts news of the murder? There's no risk of Jesse discovering the murder if there is no murder. Killing Brock would just create unnecessary risk for Jack and his gang.
The worst part is he doesn't know why it's happening to him or that Jesse is indirectly responsible.
Ken Wins's car burns up next to a gas station in Season 1. Only Rule of Funny keeps the entire station from going up.
In season 2's "Peekaboo" episode, we run across some truly repugnant meth-addicted parents when Jesse tries to get back the money and drugs they stole from his dealer. Jesse bonds with their kid a bit and chastises the mother for being so sucky. This episode is one of the first to show that Jesse cares about kids and doesn't like to see them hurt. However, he and his partner are putting out the purest meth their state has ever seen. These parents were addicts before Blue Sky, but how many families are going to end up similar to this thanks to Jesse and Walt's product?
The whole series has disturbing implications about the kind of terrible things normal (or seemingly normal) people are capable of under the right circumstances.
What makes the show so chilling is how damaging lies and deceit can really be. The consequences for Walt lying gradually worsen as the series progresses, and by the fifth season, the White family is completely shattered. Nothing about it is genuine.
When we last saw Ted, he was in the hospital with a broken neck or spine. There's a possibility that he'll end up as a quadriplegic.
Also consider the fact that his head appears to have been shaved. That's because they'd have to do so to get into his brain to stop the swelling.
Gus's death has some chilling undertones to it. Like, Walt is lucky the bomb only killed Gus, Hector, and Tyrus. Because watching the explosion, the force of the blast blew down the door and threw it into the hallway. If a caregiver was wheeling a resident down the hall in front of Hector's door at the time of explosion. Or maybe a caregiver came to Hector's door to check on him at the time of the explosion. Anyone in that vicinity would have had a bad day.
There had to be a lot of fallout from Gus's death that the show never dwelled on. With the death of Gus, and the exposure of his drug empire, Madrigal is going to be in a lot of hot water. This is not tax evasion or liability for a faulty product, but narcotics production and trafficking on an industrial scale. In fact, Madrigal is lucky that the United States government or EU didn't have them dissolved.
In fact, this could factor into what little we see of Peter Schuler. It's obvious that Schuler and Gus knew each other personally, as evidenced by the photo shown of the two together on a game fishing trip(?). His role seems to possibly have been to launder Gus's meth money through Los Pollos Hermanos, lending real legitimacy to LPH as a Madrigal corporate franchise (which is not too far-fetched, as there are plenty of actual so-called "local" food franchises that are owned by conglomerates). By committing suicide, Schuler may not have just been avoiding a prison sentence, but he may also have done so to protect Madrigal as a whole from prosecution, implicating only himself in the operation by not throwing anyone else from Madrigal under the bus in a plea deal.
The way Saul acts in "Granite State", it's clear that his real personality as Jimmy McGill is coming back. It's as if all of Saul's goods have been stripped away: his job, his flashy clothes and car, and even his name — fake though it is — and without them, he is just another working slob, doomed to the kind of life he had always avoided.
The death of Drew Sharp after the train heist was shocking enough. But it had to have been worse for Mike. That's because he probably still remembers the fallout from his attack on Hector's ice cream/money smuggling truck from Better Call Saul: an innocent Samaritan got killed by Hector for stumbling upon the tied-up truck driver. Mike hasn't forgotten that. And Drew Sharp probably reminded him of that Samaritan — someone in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Jesse and Skinny Pete's reactions to Combo's death really speak volumes about both men's vastly different backgrounds, and about the subtle psychological effects of a life of crime. Jesse, the relatively privileged White kid who grew up in suburbia, is so devastated by his death that he refuses to leave the house for days, and can't even bring himself to attend Combo's funeral. But when the veteran drug dealer Skinny Pete calls Jesse after the funeral, he excitedly raves about it like it was just another party, even gushing about the impressively large casket that Combo's family paid for. It's a small but telling look at the mindset of a professional drug dealer. People like Combo and Skinny Pete know damn well that their careers come with a low life expectancy, and they live with the possibility of death every day; for many of them, a lavish funeral is the closest thing that they'll ever get to a retirement party.
In "Half Measure," Walt wants Jesse put in jail for a couple of months to keep Jesse from going after the dealers that killed Combo. Saul asks Mike to do the job and Mike discusses the plan with Walt.
Mike: Have a seat, Walter. I spoke to Goodman about Pinkman and this plan of yours.
Walt: And?
Mike: I'm not gonna do it.
Walt: Why?
Mike: Because it's moronic.
Walt: Saul said you've done things like this before.
In Better Call Saul, Mike and Gus had a similar scheme to get Lalo locked up. It backfired in a big way as Lalo was still able to give orders and harm Gus's operation from jail. After the blowback from that scheme, it makes sense that Mike would be hesitant to do another "get someone incarcerated" job and see it as a half-measure.
"You're WELCOME...!!" Mike could have just kept walking, instead of confronting Walter. Mike would have survived, and had a clear conscience that he didn't give up his men (Walter would have soon figured out he could have gotten the names from Lydia).
The scene where Huell and Kuby enter Ted Beneke's house. The audience knows that it relates to the money problems, but it is likely that Ted himself doesn't realize that until they mention Skyler. Thus, when they initially walk in (without his consent) and Huell warns him to do what he's told and Kuby insists on getting Ted's check book, Ted probably thinks that a random, bizarre duo of thugs are trying to steal his (considerable) wealth. Which, when one thinks about that, makes an amusing scene even more amusing from the perspective of the audience and more terrifying from Ted's POV.
As unexpected as some of the plots are, they do sort of play out in a very realistic way, especially in regards to white privilege. One example of this is seen in Todd threatening Jesse's Latina girlfriend as opposed to Jesse's biological and white family in the burbs. The horrifying reality of POC being expendable and killed without justice is a certainty you can bet on, and the deaths of Jesse's family would warrant unwanted attention from the police.
Fridge Logic
Why did Saul vanish with the full identity change at the end of the series? Sure, he was Walt and Jesse's lawyer, but there doesn't seem to be any evidence tying him to criminal activity. Gus and associates are dead, and Jack's gang has no reason to hold a grudge against him. Why wouldn't he just stick with his law practice?
Walter White becomes really infamous, which means lots of attention on his lawyer at a federal level. In his case, he would probably be caught on something and they'd throw the book at him hard, even if just a technicality. It's possible that later seasons of Better Call Saul will cover his return, if he makes one.
By the time that episode aired, the Better Call Saul spin-off had already been announced and his character would revert to Jimmy McGill, his true identity. Saul's final remarks were uncharacteristically honest and humble, hinting at the man he started to be in his checkered career before he morphed into Saul.
He's looking at charges of criminal conspiracy and money laundering since he knowingly handled Walt's drug money. Under RICO statutes he could also be charged with anything that he had Huell and Kuby carry out.
And as far as he's concerned, even for that moment while he was getting an identity change, he's not Saul anymore. He's just Jimmy.
Not to mention he had extensive business with Skyler as well, not just Walt. Saul could be worried that Skyler might throw him under the bus with everything she knows he's done to aid in Walt's business to get a more favorable deal for herself (whether or not she would is a different discussion).
